Note: On RHD (Right Hand Drive) vehicles, the controls illustrated above are arranged similarly,
but are mirrored on the right side of the vehicle.
1. Interior door handles ( Opening Doors from the Interior on page 6)
2. Traffic-Aware Cruise Control (Traffic-Aware Cruise Control on page 64) and Autosteer (see 
Autosteer on page 70)
3. High beams ( High Beam Headlights on page 48), Turn signals (Turn Signals on page 49),
Wipers and washers (Wipers and Washers on page 50)
4. Steering wheel buttons - left ( Using Left Steering Wheel Buttons on page 34)
5. Instrument panel ( Instrument Panel on page 40)
6. Steering wheel buttons - right ( Using Right Steering Wheel Buttons on page 35)
7. Gear selector ( Shifting Gears on page 39)
8. Touchscreen ( Touchscreen Overview on page 86)
9. Glove box button ( Glove Box on page 14)
10. Power window switches ( Opening and Closing on page 9)
11. Exterior mirror adjustment switches ( Mirrors on page 37)
12. Seats ( Front and Rear Seats on page 17)
13. Steering column adjuster (hidden from view in the above image) ( Steering Wheel on page
34)
14. Horn ( Horn on page 36)
15. Brakes ( Brakes on page 51)
16. Hazard warning lights ( Hazard Warning Flashers on page 49)
17. Cabin climate control ( Climate Controls on page 97)
18. Cup holders ( Cup Holders on page 16)
Interior Overview
2 Model S Owner's Manual
1. Exterior lights ( Lights on page 45)
2. Door handles ( Using Exterior Door Handles on page 6)
3. Sunroof (optional) ( Sunroof on page 15)
4. Charge port ( Charging Instructions on page 122)
5. Forward looking camera ( About Driver Assistance on page 62)
6. Exterior mirrors ( Mirrors on page 37)
7. Hood/Front trunk ( Front Trunk on page 12)
8. Radar sensor (hidden from view in the above image) ( About Driver Assistance on page 62)
9. Wheels and tires ( Wheels and Tires on page 157)
10. Rear view camera ( Rear View Camera on page 61)
11. Rear trunk/liftgate ( Rear Trunk on page 10)
12. Ultrasonic sensors ( Park Assist on page 54 and About Driver Assistance on page 62)
Exterior Overview
Overview 3
Keyless Locking and Unlocking
Locking and unlocking Model S is convenient.
Although you must be carrying a valid key,
there is no need to use it. Model S has sensors
that can recognize the presence of a key
within a range of approximately one meter. So
you can keep your key in your pocket or purse
and Model S detects it.
When you walk up to Model S carrying your
key, doors automatically unlock. If a door
handle is retracted, press it and it extends. If
the Auto-Present Handles setting is turned on
(see Using Exterior Door Handles on page
6), you do not need to touch the door
handle. Instead, door handles extends
automatically as you approach Model S. To
open the rear trunk, press the switch located
under the trunk’s exterior handle.
Note: You can choose whether you want all
doors, or just the driver's door, to unlock when
you approach Model S carrying your key (see 
Door Unlock Mode on page 6).
When carrying your key with you, you can also
open the rear trunk without having to use the
key. Simply press the switch located under the
trunk’s exterior handle. Door Unlock Mode
(see Door Unlock Mode on page 6) must
be set to All.
Model S also locks automatically. If you set
Walk-Away Door Lock to ON, Model S locks
when you walk away carrying your key with
you (see Walk-away Locking on page 7).
While sitting inside Model S, you can also lock
and unlock the vehicle by touching the icon on
the touchscreen's status bar or using the
Controls screen.
Note: Depending on date of manufacture and
options selected at time of purchase, some
Model S vehicles are not equipped with the
automatic locking and unlocking feature.
Using the Key
To quickly familiarize yourself with the key,
think of the key as a miniature version of
Model S, with the Tesla badge representing
the front. The key has three buttons that feel
like softer areas on the surface.
1. Trunk
• Double-click to open the rear trunk.
• If equipped with a powered liftgate,
double-click to close the rear trunk.
You can also single-click to stop the
liftgate when it is moving.
• Hold the button down for one to two
seconds to open the charge port door.
2. Lock/Unlock All
• Double-click to unlock Model S.
Hazard warning lights flash twice and
door handles extend.
Note: If Door Unlock Mode setting is
set to Driver, double-clicking unlocks
only the driver's door and you will
need to double-click again to unlock
all doors and trunks. If set to All, the
first double-click unlocks all doors and
trunks. Use the touchscreen to change
this setting (touch Controls >
Settings > Vehicle > Door Unlock
Mode).
• Single-click to lock doors and trunks
(all doors and trunks must be closed).
Hazard warning lights flash once and
door handles retract.
3. Front trunk (also called the "frunk")
• Double-click to open the front trunk.
You do not need to point the key at Model S,
but you must be within operating range
(which varies depending on the strength of
the key’s battery).
Doors
4 Model S Owner's Manual
If Model S is unable to detect the key, the
touchscreen displays a message indicating
that a key is not inside. Place the key where
Model S can best detect it, which is below the
12V power socket (see Key Not Inside on page
38).
Radio equipment on a similar frequency can
affect the key. If this happens, move the key at
least 30 cm away from other electronic
devices (phone, laptop, etc). If the key does
not work, you may need to change its battery.
If the key’s battery is discharged, you can
open Model S by following the unlocking
procedure (see Unlocking When the Key
Doesn't Work on page 7).
Caution: Remember to bring the key with
you when you drive. Although you can
drive Model S away from its key, you will
be unable to power it back on after it
powers off.
Caution: Protect the key from impact,
high temperatures, and damage from
liquids. Avoid contact with solvents,
waxes and abrasive cleaners.
Replacing the Key Battery
The key’s battery lasts for approximately a
year. When the battery is low, a message
displays on the instrument panel. Follow these
steps to replace it:
1. With the key placed button side down on
a soft surface, use a small flat-bladed tool
to release the bottom cover.
2. Remove the battery by lifting it away from
the front retaining clips.
3. Insert the new battery (type CR2032) with
the ‘+’ side facing up.
Note: Wipe the battery clean before fitting
and avoid touching the battery's flat
surfaces. Finger marks on the flat surfaces
of the battery can reduce battery life.
4. Holding the cover at an angle, align the
tabs on the widest side of the cover with
the corresponding slots on the key, then
press the cover firmly onto the key until it
snaps into place.
Getting More Keys
If you lose a key or require an additional one,
contact Tesla. Model S can recognize up to
five keys.
When ordering a new key for Model S, take all
available keys with you for reprogramming.
Doors
Opening and Closing 5
Using Exterior Door Handles
A light press on a door handle extends it,
provided Model S detects a valid key nearby.
You can set the door handles to extend
automatically whenever you approach the
driver’s side carrying the key. On the
touchscreen, touch Controls > Settings >
Vehicle > Auto-Present Handles > On.
Note: Depending on date of manufacture and
options selected at time of purchase, some
Model S vehicles are not equipped with Auto-
Present Handles.
Insert your hand into the handle and pull to
open the door.
Door handles retract if you do not use them
within one minute after they extend. Just
press a handle to extend it again. Door
handles also retract a minute after the last
door closes, when Model S begins moving,
and when you lock Model S.
Note: To preserve battery life, Model S is
designed to temporarily disable the Auto-
Present Handles feature when:
• The key has been out of range for more
than 48 hours.
• The key remains within range for five
minutes after all doors have been closed.
In these cases, extend door handles by
touching one of them, or by pressing the
unlock button on the key. There is no need to
reset the setting. The next time you approach
Model S, provided the above conditions do
not apply, handles automatically extend.
Whenever a door is open, the Door
Open indicator displays on the
instrument panel. The image of the
Model S on the touchscreen Controls
window also shows which door or
trunk is open.
Opening Doors from the Interior
To open a door, pull the interior door handle
toward you.
Note: To prevent children from opening rear
doors using the interior handles, use the
touchscreen, Controls > Settings > Vehicle >
Child Protection Lock, to turn on the child-
protection locks (see Child-protection Lock on
page 7).
Interior Locking and Unlocking
From inside Model S, you can use the
touchscreen to lock or unlock doors and
trunks, provided a valid key is inside the
vehicle. Touch the lock icon on the
touchscreen's status bar.
When you stop Model S and engage the Park
gear, you can choose whether you want doors
to unlock or remain locked. To do so, touch
Controls > Settings > Vehicle > Unlock On
Park. When set to ON, doors automatically
unlock when you engage the Park gear.
You can also unlock doors and present
handles by pressing the Park button on the
end of the gear selector a second time (i.e.,
after pressing it one time to engage the Park
gear).
Note: If a door or trunk is still open when you
lock Model S, it locks when you close it.
Door Unlock Mode
You can choose whether you want all doors,
or just the driver's door, to unlock when you
approach your vehicle carrying your key. To do
so, touch Controls > Settings > Vehicle > Door
Unlock Mode and choose Driver or All.
Doors
6 Model S Owner's Manual
Child-protection Lock
Model S has child-protection locks on the rear
doors and liftgate to prevent them from being
opened using interior handles. Use the
touchscreen to turn child protection locks on
or off. Touch Controls > Settings > Vehicle >
Child Protection Lock.
Note: It is recommended that you turn child-
protection locks on whenever children are
seated in the rear seats.
Drive-away Locking
Model S automatically locks all doors
(including the trunks) whenever your driving
speed exceeds 8 km/h.
Walk-away Locking
Doors and trunks can automatically lock
whenever you walk away carrying the key.
To turn this feature on or off, touch Controls >
Settings > Vehicle > Walk-Away Door Lock.
Note: Depending on date of manufacture and
options selected at time of purchase, some
Model S vehicles are not equipped with the
Walk-Away Door Lock feature.
Note: If all doors are closed and you use the
key to unlock Model S, walk-away locking is
temporarily suspended until the next time
Model S powers on (such as when you press
the Brake pedal to engage a driving gear), or
until you use the key again to lock Model S.
This allows you to keep Model S unlocked in
your garage.
Unlocking When the Key Doesn't
Work
If Model S does not unlock when you walk up
to it, or when you press the unlock button on
your key, the key’s battery may be dead. If this
is the case, you can still unlock and drive
Model S.
To unlock Model S (and disable the security
alarm), first position the key near the base of
the passenger side windshield wiper, as
shown. Then press the driver's door handle. If
Model S doesn't unlock, try adjusting the
position of the key. The key must be in the
correct position.
To drive Model S, place the key against the
center console, immediately below the 12V
power outlet, then press and hold the brake
pedal to turn Model S on.
Note: Unlocking Model S using this method
disables walk-away locking. You must
manually re-enable walk-away locking after
replacing the key’s battery.
For instructions on how to replace the key’s
battery, see Replacing the Key Battery on
page 5.
Doors
Opening and Closing 7
Opening Interior Doors with No
Power
If Model S has no electrical power, front doors
open as usual using the interior door handles.
To open the rear doors, fold back the edge of
the carpet below the rear seats to expose the
mechanical release cable. Pull the mechanical
release cable toward the center.
Doors
8 Model S Owner's Manual
Opening and Closing
Press down on a switch to lower the
associated window all the way down. Window
switches operate at two levels. To lower a
window partially, hold the switch and release
when the window is at the desired position.
Similarly, pull a switch to raise the associated
window. This also operates at two levels—
when raising, hold the switch and release
when the window is at the desired position.
Warning: Before closing a power window,
it is the driver’s responsibility to ensure
that all occupants, especially children, do
not have any body parts extended
through the window’s opening. Failure to
do so can cause serious injury.
Warning: When leaving Model S, always
take your key with you. Leaving the key in
Model S allows all doors, windows, and
controls to be fully operational and can
cause hazardous, unauthorized or
unintentional use of Model S.
Locking Rear Windows
To prevent passengers from using the rear
window switches, press the rear window lock
switch. The switch light turns on. To unlock
rear windows, press the switch again.
Warning: To ensure safety, it is
recommended that you lock the rear
windows whenever children are seated in
the rear seats.
Warning: Never leave children unattended
in Model S.
Windows
Opening and Closing 9
Opening
To open the rear trunk, do one of the
following:
• Touch Controls > Trunk on the
touchscreen.
• Double-click the rear trunk button on the
key.
• Press the switch located under the
exterior handle (depending on date of
manufacture and options selected at time
of purchase, some Model S vehicles
require you to first unlock Model S).
When the liftgate is open, the
instrument panel displays the Door
Open indicator light. The image of
Model S on the touchscreen Controls
window also displays the open trunk.
To stop a powered liftgate while it is moving,
single-click the Trunk button on the key. Then,
when you double-click the Trunk button, it
moves again, but in the opposite direction
(provided it was not almost entirely open or
closed when you stopped it). For example, if
you single-click to stop the liftgate while it is
opening, when you double-click, it closes.
To open the trunk from inside in the unlikely
situation in which Model S has no electrical
power, see Opening with No Power on page
11.
Closing
If Model S is not equipped with a powered
liftgate, close the trunk by pulling down on the
liftgate and pushing firmly until it is fully
closed.
To close the powered liftgate, do one of the
following:
• Double-click the trunk button on the key.
• Touch Controls > Trunk on the
touchscreen.
• Press the switch located on the underside
of the liftgate (see Adjusting the Opening
Height on page 10).
If a powered liftgate senses an obstruction
when closing, it automatically opens and
sounds two chimes. Remove the obstruction
and try closing it again. If it cannot close the
second time, powered operation is temporarily
disabled. Close it manually to restore powered
operation.
Note: The power closing feature is also
temporarily disabled if you leave the powered
liftgate open for more than an hour.
Adjusting the Opening Height
If Model S is equipped with a powered liftgate,
you can adjust its opening height to make it
easier to reach:
1. Open the liftgate, then manually lower it
to the desired opening height.
2. Press and hold the button on the
underside of the liftgate for two seconds
until you hear a confirmation chime.
3. Confirm that you have set it to the desired
height by closing the liftgate, then
reopening it.
Rear Trunk
10 Model S Owner's Manual
Interior Release
To open the trunk from inside a Model S
equipped with the Tesla Built-In Rear Facing
Child Seats, press the interior release switch
located inside the rear trunk and push the
liftgate up. If Model S is locked and is
equipped with a power liftgate, the first press
unlocks the rear trunk and the second press
opens it.
Note: If Model S is not equipped with the Tesla
Rear Facing Child Seats, the switch may
appear to exist, but it will be inactive and
pressing it does not release the liftgate.
If Model S is equipped with the power liftgate,
you do not need to push it up. When you
press the release switch, it opens, and when
you pull the switch, it closes.
Note: The interior release switch is disabled if
child-protection locks are turned on (see 
Child-protection Lock on page 7), or if
Model S is moving.
Opening with No Power
If Model S has no electrical power, you can
open the rear trunk from inside. Use the
mechanical release cable located on the
underside of the liftgate, next to the interior
light.
1. Remove the cover by pulling its lower
edge very firmly toward you.
2. Pull the cable to release the latch.
3. Push the liftgate open.
Rear Trunk
Opening and Closing 11
Opening
To open the front trunk:
Touch ControlsFront Trunk on the
touchscreen, or double-click the front
trunk button on the key.
Pull the hood up.
The door open indicator displays on
the instrument panel when the front
trunk is open. The image of the
Model S on the touchscreen Controls
window also displays the open trunk.
The front trunk locks whenever Model S is
locked using the touchscreen, externally using
the key or walk-away locking, or when Valet
mode is active (see Valet Mode).
Closing
The Model S body is made of lightweight
aluminum. Therefore, the hood is not heavy
enough to latch under its own weight and
applying pressure on the front edge or center
of the hood can cause damage. To close the
hood:
• Lower the hood fully until it touches the
latches.
• Place both hands on the front of the hood
in the areas shown below (in green), then
press down firmly to engage the latches.
• Lift the front edge of the hood to ensure it
is fully closed.
Caution: To prevent damage:
• Apply pressure only to the green
areas illustrated above. Applying
pressure to the red areas can cause
damage.
• Do not close the hood with one hand.
Doing so applies concentrated force
in one area and can result in a dent or
crease.
• Do not apply pressure to the leading
edge of the hood because this can
crease the edge.
• Do not slam or drop the hood.
Warning: Do not drive with the hood
secured by the secondary latch alone.
Front Trunk
12 Model S Owner's Manual
Interior Emergency Release
An interior release button inside the front
trunk allows a person locked inside to get out.
This release button is active whenever Model S
is stationary.
Press the interior release button to open the
front trunk, then push up on the hood.
Note: The button glows for several hours after
a brief exposure to ambient light.
Opening with No Power
Note: The mechanical release lever described
below is not available on all versions of
Model S. For dual-motor vehicles and on some
newer models, contact Tesla for assistance.
If Model S has no electrical power, or if you are
unable to open the front trunk using the
touchscreen or key, pull the mechanical
release lever located below the glove box. This
releases the primary latch.
Then push down on the secondary latch lever
and lift the hood. You may need to push the
hood down slightly to release the pressure
against the secondary latch.
Front Trunk
Opening and Closing 13
Opening and Closing
To open the glove box, press the switch
located on the side of the touchscreen. If you
leave the glove box open for five minutes, its
light automatically turns off.
Note: The glove box locks whenever Model S
is locked externally, using the key or walk-
away locking. It also locks when Model S is in
Valet mode (see Valet Mode on page 32). It
does not lock when Model S is locked using
the touchscreen.
Warning: When driving, keep the glove
box closed to prevent injury to a
passenger if a collision or sudden stop
occurs.
Glove Box
14 Model S Owner's Manual
Opening and Closing
If your Model S is equipped with a sunroof,
touch Controls > Sunroof on the touchscreen
to operate it. Drag, or tap on, the sunroof
slider bar, or touch the image of the sunroof
and drag it. The sunroof moves to the selected
position.
Touch OPEN once to open the sunroof to its
comfort position (75% open to minimize wind
noise). Or, move the sunroof to the comfort
position by dragging the slider bar to the
indent position. If you find wind noise (which
varies depending on driving speed) excessive,
even with the sunroof in the comfort position,
open a window slightly.
Touch OPEN twice to open the sunroof fully.
Touch CLOSE to fully close the sunroof.
If the sunroof’s safety mechanism detects any
obstruction, it does not close. If, after
removing the obstruction, it still does not
close, touch and hold CLOSE to override the
sunroof’s anti-trap mechanism.
Touch VENT to open the sunroof slightly.
To stop the sunroof from moving at any time,
touch the image of the sunroof.
Caution: Remove snow and ice before
opening the sunroof. Opening a sunroof
covered in snow and ice can cause
damage.
Warning: Do not allow occupants to
extend any part of their body through the
sunroof. Doing so can cause serious injury
from flying debris, tree branches, or other
obstructions.
Warning: Before closing the sunroof,
ensure that occupants, especially
children, do not have any body part
extended through the sunroof opening.
Failure to do so can cause serious injury.
Warning: Do not carry an object that
protrudes through the sunroof. Doing so
can damage the sunroof’s seals and anti-
trap mechanism, and can cause injury to
occupants.
Sunroof
Opening and Closing 15
Opening and Closing
To expose a front cup holder, slide back the
armrest.
To expose rear cup holders (if available on
your vehicle), press and release the cup holder
face plate located at the back of the center
console.
Cup Holders
16 Model S Owner's Manual
Correct Driving Position
The seat, head support, seat belt and airbags
work together to maximize your safety. Using
these correctly ensures greater protection.
Position the seat so you can wear the seat belt
correctly, while being as far away from the
front airbag as possible:
1. Sit upright with both feet on the floor and
the seat back reclined no more than 30
degrees.
2. Make sure you can easily reach the pedals
and that your arms are slightly bent when
holding the steering wheel. Your chest
should be at least 25 cm from the center
of the airbag cover.
3. Place the shoulder section of the seat belt
mid-way between your neck and your
shoulder. Fit the lap section of the belt
tightly across your hips, not across your
stomach.
Model S seats include integrated head
supports that cannot be adjusted or removed.
Adjusting the Driver’s Seat
1. Adjust lumbar support.
2. Adjust backrest.
3. Move seat forward/backward.
4. Adjust the seat’s height and tilt angle.
Warning: Do not adjust seats while
driving. Doing so increases the risk of a
collision.
Warning: Riding in a moving vehicle with
the seat back reclined can result in
serious injuries in a collision, as you could
slide under the lap belt or be propelled
into the seat belt. Ensure your seat back
is reclined no more than 30 degrees when
the vehicle is moving.
Front and Rear Seats
Seating and Safety Restraints 17
Folding Rear Seats
Model S has a split rear seat that can fold
forward.
Note: If Model S is equipped with the optional
executive rear seats, these seats do not fold
forward.
Before folding, remove items from the seats
and the rear foot well. To allow the rear seat
backs to fold completely flat, you may need to
move the front seats forward.
To fold a rear seat, press the corresponding
lever and fold the seat forward.
Raising Rear Seats
Before raising a rear seat, make sure that the
seat belts are not trapped behind the
backrest.
Pull the seat back upward until it locks into
place.
To confirm that the seat back is locked in the
upright position, try pulling it forward.
Warning: Always ensure the seat backs
are locked in their upright position.
Failure to do so increases the risk of
injury.
Head Supports
Seats include integrated head supports that
cannot be adjusted or removed.
Seat Heaters
The front seats are equipped with heating
pads that operate at three levels from 3
(highest) to 1 (lowest). To operate the seat
heaters, see Climate Controls on page 97.
If Model S is equipped with the optional cold
weather package, you can also control seat
heaters in all rear seating positions, as well as
heated wipers and washer nozzles by
touching Controls > Cold Weather (see 
Controls on page 90).
Seat Covers
Do not use seat covers on Model S. Doing so
could restrict deployment of the side air bags
if an accident occurs. It can also reduce the
accuracy of the occupant detection system, if
equipped.
Front and Rear Seats
18 Model S Owner's Manual
Wearing Seat Belts
Using seat belts and child safety seats is the
most effective way to protect occupants if a
collision occurs. Therefore, wearing a seat belt
is required by law in most jurisdictions.
Both the driver and passenger seats are
equipped with three-point inertia reel seat
belts. Inertia reel belts are automatically
tensioned to allow occupants to move
comfortably during normal driving conditions.
To securely hold child safety seats, all
passenger seating positions are equipped with
an automatic locking retractor (ALR) that, by
pulling the seat belt beyond the length
needed for a typical adult occupant, locks the
belt into place until the seat belt is unbuckled
(see Installing Seat Belt Retained Child Seats
on page 25).
The seat belt reel automatically locks to
prevent movement of occupants if Model S
experiences a force associated with hard
acceleration, braking, cornering, or an impact
in a collision.
The seat belt reminder on the
instrument panel alerts you if a seat
belt for an occupied seat is not
fastened. If the belt remains
unfastened, the reminder flashes and
an intermittent chime sounds. If all
occupants are buckled up and the
reminder stays on, re-fasten seat
belts to ensure they are correctly
latched. Also remove any heavy
objects (such as a briefcase) from an
unoccupied seat. If the reminder
light continues to stay on, contact
Tesla.
To Fasten a Belt
1. Ensure correct positioning of the seat (see 
Correct Driving Position on page 17).
2. Draw the belt out smoothly, ensuring the
belt lays flat across the pelvis, chest and
mid-point of your collar bone, between
the neck and shoulder.
3. Insert the latch plate into the buckle and
press together until you hear a click
indicating it is locked in place.
4. Pull the belt to check that it is securely
fastened.
5. Pull the diagonal part of the belt toward
the reel to remove excess slack.
To Release a Belt
Hold the belt near the buckle to prevent the
belt from retracting too quickly, then press the
button on the buckle. The belt retracts
automatically. Ensure there is no obstruction
that prevents the belt from fully retracting.
The belt should not hang loose. If a seat belt
does not fully retract, contact Tesla.
Wearing Seat Belts When Pregnant
Do not put the lap or shoulder sections of the
seat belt over the abdominal area. Wear the
lap section of the belt as low as possible
across the hips, not the waist. Position the
shoulder portion of the belt between the
breasts and to the side of the abdomen.
Consult your doctor for specific guidance.
Seat Belts
Seating and Safety Restraints 19
Warning: Never place anything between
you and the seat belt to cushion the
impact in the event of an accident.
Seat Belt Pre-tensioners
The front seat belts are equipped with
pre‑tensioners that work in conjunction with
the airbags in a severe frontal collision. The
pre‑tensioners automatically retract both the
seat belt anchor and the seat belt webbing,
reducing slack in both the lap and diagonal
portions of the belts, resulting in reduced
forward movement of the occupant.
If the pre-tensioners and airbags did not
activate in an impact, this does not mean they
malfunctioned. It usually means that the
strength or type of force needed to activate
them was not present.
Warning: Once the seat belt pre-
tensioners have been activated, they must
be replaced. After any accident, have the
airbags, seat belt pre-tensioners and any
associated components checked and, if
necessary, replaced.
Seat Belts
20 Model S Owner's Manual
Testing Seat Belts
To confirm that seat belts are operating
correctly, perform these three simple checks
on each seat belt.
1. With the seat belt fastened, give the
webbing nearest the buckle a quick pull.
The buckle should remain securely locked.
2. With the belt unfastened, unreel the
webbing to its limit. Check that unreeling
is free from snags, and visually check the
webbing for wear. Allow the webbing to
retract, checking that retraction is smooth
and complete.
3. With the webbing half unreeled, hold the
tongue plate and pull forward quickly. The
mechanism should lock automatically and
prevent further unreeling.
If a seat belt fails any of these tests, contact
Tesla immediately.
For information about cleaning seat belts, see 
Seat Belts on page 140.
Seat Belt Warnings
Warning: Seat belts should be worn by all
occupants at all times, even if driving for
a very short distance. Failure to do so
increases the risk of injury or death if an
accident occurs.
Warning: Secure small children in a
suitable child safety seat (see Child
Safety Seats on page 22). Always follow
the child safety seat manufacturer's
instructions when installing.
Warning: Ensure that all seat belts are
worn correctly. An improperly worn seat
belt increases the risk of injury or death if
an accident occurs.
Warning: Do not wear seat belts over
hard, fragile or sharp items in clothing,
such as pens, keys, eyeglasses, etc. The
pressure from the seat belt on such items
can cause injury.
Warning: Seat belts should not be worn
with any part of the strap twisted.
Warning: Each seat belt assembly must
be used by one occupant only. It is
dangerous to put a seat belt around a
child being carried on an occupant’s lap.
Warning: Seat belts that have been worn
in an accident must be inspected or
replaced by Tesla, even if damage to the
assembly is not obvious.
Warning: Seat belts that show signs of
wear (such as fraying), or have been cut
or damaged in any way, must be replaced
by Tesla.
Warning: Avoid contaminating a seat
belt’s components with any chemicals,
liquids, grit, dirt or cleaning products. If a
seat belt fails to retract or latch into the
buckle, it must be replaced immediately.
Contact Tesla.
Warning: Do not make modifications or
additions that can prevent a seat belt
mechanism from taking up slack, or that
can prevent a seat belt from being
adjusted to remove slack. A slack belt
greatly reduces occupant protection.
Warning: Do not make modifications that
can interfere with the operation of a seat
belt, or that can cause a seat belt to
become inoperable.
Warning: When seat belts are not in use,
they should be fully retracted and not
hanging loose. If a seat belt does not fully
retract, contact Tesla.
Seat Belts
Seating and Safety Restraints 21
Guidelines for Seating Children
You must restrain infants and small children using a child safety seat appropriate for the child’s
age, weight, and size. Never seat a child in a child safety seat or a booster seat on the front
passenger seat when the airbag is activated. To disable the front passenger seat airbag, see 
Disabling the Passenger Front Airbags on page 30. Carefully follow the instructions provided by
the manufacturer of the child safety seat.
Warning: Never use a rearward facing child restraint on a seat protected by an ACTIVE
AIRBAG in front of it. DEATH or SERIOUS INJURY to the child can occur.
Refer to the following label fitted to the sun visors.
Note: The image shown below is representative only and may not be identical to those on your
vehicle.
Child Safety Seats
22 Model S Owner's Manual
Choosing a Child Safety Seat
Refer to the tables below for guidelines on the type of seat belt installed and ISOFIX installed
child restraint you should use based on the weight of the child.
Seat Belt Installed Child Restraints
Mass Group Front Passenger Rear Outboard Rear Center
Group 0 up to 10 kg X U U
Group 0+ up to 13 kg L* U U
Group I 9 - 18 kg UF** U, UF U, UF
Group II 15 - 25 kg UF** U, UF U, UF
Group III 22 - 36 kg UF** U, UF U, UF
U: Universal rear facing child restraint.
UF: Universal forward facing child restraint.
L: Suitable for these particular child restraints - Maxi-Cosi Cabrio/Cabriofix E4 04443517 or
Takata Mini E4 04443717.
X: Seating position is not suitable for children in this mass group.
* Seat must be placed in rearmost lowest position.
** Seat must be placed in rearmost highest position.
Note: Attach booster seats using seat belts only (do not use ISOFIX).
Note: If Model S is equipped with the optional executive rear seats, a rear center seating
position is not available.
Child Safety Seats
Seating and Safety Restraints 23
ISOFIX* Installed Child Restraints
Mass Group Size Class Fixture
Rear Outboard
ISOFIX Position
Group 0 up to 10 kg E R1
Note: Attach
booster seats
using seat belts
only (do not use
ISOFIX).
IL
Group 0+ up to 13 kg
E R1 ILA, C
D R2 ILA, C
C R3 ILA, C
Group I 9 - 18 kg
D R2 ILB
C R3 ILB
B F2 IUF, ILB, D
B1 F2X IUF, ILB, D
A F3 IUF, ILB, D
IL: Suitable for any semi-universal child restraint (any rear or forward facing restraint with
support leg).
IUF: Suitable for any universal child restraint (forward facing with tether).
ARecommendation: Takata Mini E4 04443717.
BRecommendation: Takata Midi E4 04444204.
CRecommendation: Maxi-cosi Cabriofix/Easyfix E4 04443517.
DRecommendation: Maxi-cosi Pearl/Familyfix E4 043908.
*ISOFIX - The international standard for attachment points for child safety seats in passenger
vehicles.
Note: If the combined weight of the child and the child safety seat is over 29 kg, Tesla
recommends attaching the safety seat using the seat belt and upper tether strap. In addition to
safety, this has the added benefit of ensuring the seat belt reminder does not stay lit. Always
follow the child safety seat manufacturer’s instructions when installing child safety seats.
Child Safety Seats
24 Model S Owner's Manual
Seating Larger Children
If a child is too large to fit into a child safety
seat, but too small to safely fit into the
standard seat belts, use a booster seat
appropriate for the child’s age and size.
Carefully follow the manufacturer’s
instructions to secure the booster seat using
the seat belts. Do not use the ISOFIX system
to secure booster seats, even in situations
where the booster seat is equipped with the
ISOFIX system.
Installing Child Safety Seats
There are two general methods used to install
child safety seats:
• Seat belt retained - these seats are
secured using the vehicle’s seat belts (see 
Installing Seat Belt Retained Child Seats
on page 25).
• ISOFIX retained - these seats can attach
to anchor bars built into the vehicle’s rear
seats (see Installing ISOFIX Child Seats on
page 26).
Check the child safety seat manufacturer’s
instructions and the table at Child Safety
Seats on page 22 to determine which
installation method to use. Some child safety
seats can be installed using either method.
Always follow the child safety seat
manufacturer’s instructions.
Installing Seat Belt Retained Child
Seats
First, make sure that the child falls into the
correct weight range for the seat.
Avoid dressing the child in bulky clothing and
do not place any objects between the child
and the restraint system.
Adjust harnesses for every child, every trip.
To securely hold child safety seats, all
passenger seating positions are equipped with
an automatic locking retractor (ALR) that, by
pulling the seat belt beyond the length
needed for a typical adult occupant, locks the
belt into place until the seat belt is unbuckled
and the webbing is fully retracted. The ALR
mechanism operates as a ratchet, winding in
slack and preventing the seat belt from
extending any further until it has been
completely rewound. When installing a child
safety seat, engage the belt's automatic
locking retractor by pulling the seat belt
webbing until it is fully extended. The ALR
system engages only when the seat belt is at
its maximum extension point.
Note: An automatic locking retractor
disengages only when the seat belt is
unbuckled and fully retracted. The belt can
then be worn as a normal belt, sliding freely in
and out and locking tight only in an
emergency. Once disengaged, the belt must
be fully extended to re-engage the locking
mechanism whenever you install a child safety
seat.
Always follow the detailed instructions
provided by the child safety seat
manufacturer. General guidelines are provided
below.
1. Place the child safety seat in Model S, and
fully extend the seat belt. Route and
buckle the seat belt in accordance with
the child safety seat manufacturer’s
instructions.
2. Allow the seat belt to retract, and remove
all slack in the seat belt while firmly
pushing the child safety seat into the
Model S seat.
3. If the seat belt retained child safety seat
has an upper tether, attach it to the back
of the seat (see Attaching Upper Tether
Straps on page 26).
Child Safety Seats
Seating and Safety Restraints 25
Installing ISOFIX Child Seats
Lower ISOFIX anchors are provided in the
second row outboard seats. The anchors are
located between the seat's back rest and rear
cushion. The exact location of each anchor is
identified by a child safety seat identification
button, illustrated below. The button is located
on the seat back, directly above its associated
anchor.
Install ISOFIX child safety seats in the
outboard seating positions only. Use only a
seat belt retained seat in the center position.
To install a ISOFIX child safety seat, slide the
safety seat latches onto the anchor bars until
they click into place. Carefully read and follow
the instructions provided by the child safety
seat manufacturer.
Once installed, test the security of the
installation before seating a child. Attempt to
twist the child safety seat from side to side
and try to pull it away from the seat, then
check that the anchors are still securely in
place.
Attaching Upper Tether Straps
If an upper tether strap is provided, attach its
hook to the anchor point located on the back
of the rear seats.
Always position single-strap tethers to run
over the top of the head support. For dual-
strap tethers, position a strap on each side of
the head support.
Tighten upper tether straps according to the
instructions provided by the manufacturer of
the child safety seat.
Note: To prevent the single-strap tether from
moving side to side, the top of the head
support deforms.
Note: The location of anchor points may not
be readily visible but can be found by
identifying a slice in the seat's material.
Child Safety Seats
26 Model S Owner's Manual
Testing a Child Safety Seat
Before seating a child, always make sure the
child safety seat is not loose:
1. Hold the child safety seat by the belt path
and try to slide the safety seat from side
to side and front to back.
2. If the seat moves more than 2.5 cm, it is
too loose. Tighten the belt or reconnect
the ISOFIX retained child safety seat.
3. If you are unable to reduce slack, try a
different seat location or try another child
safety seat.
Warnings - Child Safety Seats
Warning: Never seat a child in a child
safety seat or a booster seat on the front
passenger seat when the airbag is
activated. Doing so can cause serious
injury or death.
Warning: Never use a rearward facing
child restraint on a seat protected by an
active airbag. Doing so can cause serious
injury or death. Refer to the warning label
located on the passenger side sun visor.
Warning: Child restraint systems are
designed to be secured in vehicle seats
by lap belts or the lap belt portion of a
lap-shoulder belt. Children could be
endangered in a crash if their child
restraints are not properly secured in the
vehicle
Warning: According to accident statistics,
children are safer when properly
restrained in the rear seating positions
than in the front seating positions.
Warning: Do not use a forward facing
child safety seat until your child weighs
over 9 kg and can sit independently. Up
to the age of two, a child's spine and neck
are not sufficiently developed to avoid
injury in a frontal impact.
Warning: Do not allow a baby or infant to
be held on a lap. All children should be
restrained in an appropriate child safety
seat at all times.
Warning: To ensure children are safely
seated, follow all instructions provided in
this document and by the manufacturer
of the child safety seat.
Warning: Children should ride in a rear
facing child safety seat using the seat’s
integrated 5-point harness for as long as
possible.
Warning: Do not use seat belt extenders
on a seat belt that is being used to install
a child safety seat or booster seat.
Warning: When seating larger children,
make sure the child's head is supported
and the child’s seat belt is properly
adjusted and fastened. The shoulder
portion of the belt must be away from the
face and neck, and the lap portion must
not be over the stomach.
Warning: Never attach two child safety
seats to one anchor point. In a collision,
one anchor point may be incapable of
securing both seats.
Warning: Child restraint anchors are
designed to withstand only those loads
imposed by correctly fitted child
restraints. Under no circumstances are
they to be used for adult seat belts,
harnesses, or for attaching other items or
equipment.
Warning: Always check harnesses and
tether straps for damage and wear.
Warning: Never leave a child unattended,
even if the child is secured in a child
safety seat.
Warning: Never use a child safety seat
that has been involved in an accident.
Have the seat inspected or replaced as
described in the child safety seat
manufacturer’s instructions.
Child Safety Seats
Seating and Safety Restraints 27
Location of Airbags
Airbags are located in the approximate areas shown here. Airbag warning information is printed
on the sun visors.
Model S is equipped with an air bag and lap/shoulder belt at both front outboard seating
positions. The air bag is a supplemental restraint at those seating positions. All occupants,
including the driver, should always wear their seat belts whether or not an air bag is also provided
at their seating position to minimize the risk of severe injury or death in the event of a crash.
Note: On RHD (Right Hand Drive) vehicles, the locations of the passenger and driver airbags are
reversed.
1. Passenger front airbag
2. Driver’s front airbag
3. Side airbags
4. Curtain airbags
Airbags
28 Model S Owner's Manual
How the Airbags Work
Inflation of airbags depends on the rate at
which the vehicle’s cabin changes speed in a
collision. The rate of deceleration determines
whether airbags inflate.
Airbags inflate instantly with considerable
force accompanied by a loud noise. The
inflated bag, together with the seat belts,
limits movement of occupants to reduce the
risk of injury.
Front airbags are not ordinarily designed to
inflate in rear collisions, rollovers, minor front
or side collisions, heavy braking, or driving
over bumps and potholes. Therefore,
significant superficial damage can occur to
the vehicle without the airbags inflating or,
conversely, a relatively small amount of
structural damage can cause airbags to inflate.
If you are planning to modify your vehicle for a
person with disabilities in a way that may
affect the airbag system, contact Tesla.
Types of Airbags
Model S has the following types of airbags:
• Advanced front airbags: The front airbags
are advanced airbags designed to reduce
airbag related injuries to children or small
adults who ride in the front seats. On the
driver’s side, the front airbag works with a
seat position sensor that adjusts the
inflation level based on the seating
position of the occupant. For safety of
infants and small children, the front
passenger airbag must be disabled, as
described below.
• Side airbags: Side airbags protect the
thorax region of the torso and the pelvis.
They inflate only if a severe side impact
occurs. Side airbags on the non-impacted
side of the vehicle do not inflate.
• Curtain airbags: Curtain airbags help
protect the head and typically inflate only
if a severe side impact occurs, or if the
vehicle rolls over. Curtain airbags on both
the impacted and non-impacted side of
the vehicle will inflate.
Airbags
Seating and Safety Restraints 29
Disabling the Passenger Front
Airbags
When a child is seated in the front passenger
seat (even when the child is seated in a child
safety seat or booster seat), you must disable
the passenger front airbags to prevent them
from injuring the child if a collision occurs.
Note: Rear seats are the preferred location for
seating children in child safety seats.
To turn off the front and side airbags on the
passenger side of the vehicle, touch Controls >
Settings > Safety & Security  > Passenger
Front Airbag.
The OFF status of the front passenger airbag
displays in the upper right corner of the
touchscreen. (When the airbag is ON, no
status is displayed on the touchscreen.)
If the airbag is on, even if you have turned it
off (or vice versa), contact Tesla immediately.
Note: Model S has a capacitive touchscreen
and may not respond to your touch if you are
wearing standard gloves. If the touchscreen is
not responding, remove gloves or wear gloves
with conductive fingertips for use with
capacitive touchscreens.
Warning: Never seat a child in a child
safety seat or a booster seat on the front
passenger seat when the airbag is
activated. Doing so can cause serious
injury or death.
Warning: If the passenger airbag control
does not appear to be functioning, do not
seat a passenger in the front seat.
Contact Tesla immediately to have the
vehicle inspected and if necessary,
repaired.
Warning: Do not use seat covers on
Model S. Doing so could restrict
deployment of the side air bags if an
accident occurs.
Inflation Effects
When airbags inflate, a fine powder is
released. This powder can irritate the skin and
should be thoroughly flushed from the eyes
and from any cuts or abrasions.
After inflation, the airbags deflate to provide a
gradual cushioning effect for the occupants
and to ensure the driver’s forward vision is not
obscured.
If airbags have inflated, or if your vehicle has
been in an accident, always have the airbags,
seat belt pre-tensioners and any associated
components checked and, if necessary,
replaced by Tesla.
In a collision, in addition to the airbags
inflating:
• Doors unlock and the door handles
extend.
• Hazard warning lights turn on.
• Interior lights turn on.
• High voltage is disabled.
To restore Battery power, use the touchscreen
to manually power off Model S (see Powering
Off on page 38), then press the brake to
power it back on again.
Airbags
30 Model S Owner's Manual
Airbag Warning Indicator
The airbag indicator on the
instrument panel remains lit if the
airbag system is malfunctioning. The
only time this indicator should light
up is briefly when Model S first
powers up, in which case it turns off
within a few seconds. If it remains lit,
contact Tesla immediately and do
not drive.
Airbag Warnings
Warning: No objects should be placed
over or near the air bag on the instrument
panel, because any such objects could
cause harm if the vehicle is in a crash
severe enough to cause the air bag to
inflate.
Warning: All occupants, including the
driver, should always wear their seat belts,
whether or not an airbag is also provided
at their seating position, to minimize the
risk of severe injury or death in the event
of a collision.
Warning: Front seat occupants should not
place their arms over the airbag module,
as an inflating bag can cause fractures or
other injuries.
Warning: Do not use seat covers on
Model S. Doing so could restrict
deployment of the side air bags if an
accident occurs. It can also reduce the
accuracy of the occupant detection
system, if equipped.
Warning: Airbags inflate with
considerable speed and force, which can
cause injury. To limit injuries, ensure that
occupants are wearing seat belts and are
correctly seated, with the seat positioned
as far back as possible.
Warning: Do not use a child safety seat or
seat young children on a seat with an
operational airbag in front of it. Doing so
can cause injury or death if the airbag
inflates.
Warning: To ensure correct inflation of the
side airbags, maintain an unobstructed
gap between an occupant’s torso and the
side of Model S.
Warning: Passengers should not lean their
heads against the doors. Doing so can
cause injury if a curtain airbag inflates.
Warning: Do not allow passengers to
obstruct the operation of an airbag by
placing feet, knees or any other part of
the body on or near an airbag.
Warning: Do not attach or place objects
on or near the front airbags, the side of
the front seats, the headliner at the side
of the vehicle, or any other airbag cover
that could interfere with inflation of an
airbag. Objects can cause serious injury if
the vehicle is in a collision severe enough
to cause the airbag to inflate.
Warning: Following inflation, some airbag
components are hot. Do not touch until
they have cooled.
Airbags
Seating and Safety Restraints 31
Creating a Driver Profile
If equipped with the driver profile feature, you
only need to adjust Model S once. When you
first adjust the driver’s seat, steering wheel, or
driver’s side mirror (if equipped), the
touchscreen prompts you to create a driver
profile to save these adjustments. Your profile
also saves some of the preferences you make
using the touchscreen’s Settings window.
A driver can add a new driver profile by
touching Controls > Settings > Driver Profiles
(or by touching the driver icon on the
touchscreen's status bar, and touching Create
Driver Profile). Enter the driver name and
touch Create Profile.
If you change the position of the steering
wheel, driver’s seat, or driver’s side mirror
after you have saved a profile, the touchscreen
prompts you to save the new position or
restore the previously saved position (other
preferences are automatically saved). To use a
setting without saving or restoring, just ignore
the prompt.
Note: Depending on date of manufacture,
adjustments made to the driver's side mirror
may not be saved to your driver profile.
Note: Valet Mode is a built-in driver profile
used to limit speed and restrict access to
some Model S features (see Valet Mode on
page 32).
Note: Depending on date of manufacture and
options selected at time of purchase, some
Model S vehicles are not equipped with the
Driver Profile feature. Also, in cases where the
vehicle is equipped with Driver Profiles, some
features may not be automatically saved and
adjusted based on the driver profile (for
example, mirror position).
Restoring a Driver’s Profile
To adjust Model S based on a driver’s
profile, touch the driver profile icon,
located to the left side of the Tesla
“T” on the touchscreen’s status bar.
Then choose the driver and the
saved adjustments are automatically
made.
Saved Driver Settings
To see what settings are associated with your
driver profile, touch Controls > Settings >
Driver Profiles. Then touch See what’s saved.
A popup window lists the settings that are
associated with a driver profile. These settings
vary depending on the version of software
currently running in Model S.
Valet Mode
When Model S is in Valet Mode, the following
restrictions apply:
• Speed is limited to 113 km/h.
• Maximum acceleration and power are
limited.
• Front trunk and glove box are locked.
• The navigation system does not display
Places (this protects Home/Work
locations).
• Voice commands are disabled.
• Cruise control is disabled.
• Most status bar functions are disabled.
• The Mobile Access setting is disabled.
• Wifi and Bluetooth are disabled. When
Model S is in Valet Mode, you cannot pair
new Bluetooth devices or view or delete
existing paired devices.
Note: If a Bluetooth paired device or a
known Wifi network is within operating
range (approximately nine meters) of
Model S in Valet Mode, Model S will
connect to it.
Starting Valet Mode
With Model S in Park, touch the driver profile
icon, located to the left of the Tesla "T" on the
touchscreen's status bar, then touch Valet
Mode.
The first time you start Valet Mode, you will be
prompted to establish a 4-digit PIN that you
will use to cancel Valet Mode.
When Valet mode is active, the instrument
panel displays the word Valet above the
driving speed and the Valet Mode driver
profile displays on the touchscreen's status
bar.
You can also use the Model S mobile app to
start and cancel Valet Mode (provided
Model S is in Park). When using the mobile
app, you do not need to enter a PIN because
you are already required to log into the app
using your MY TESLA credentials.
Driver Profiles
32 Model S Owner's Manual
Note: If you forget your PIN, reset it from
inside Model S by entering your My Tesla
credentials (which also cancels Valet Mode).
You can also reset your PIN using the Model S
mobile app.
Warning: Do not use Valet mode when
towing a trailer. Torque limitations can
make it difficult for Model X to pull a
trailer up a hill.
Cancelling Valet Mode
With Model S in Park, touch the Valet Mode
driver icon on the touchscreen's status bar,
then enter the 4-digit PIN.
When you cancel Valet Mode, all settings
associated with the most recently used Driver
Profile and climate control settings are
restored, and all features are available.
Note: You do not need to enter a PIN to cancel
Valet Mode from the mobile app.
Driver Profiles
Driving 33
Adjusting Position
Adjust the steering wheel to the desired
driving position by moving the control on the
left side of the steering column. Using this
control, you can move the steering wheel
forward and backward and up and down.
Warning: Do not make adjustments while
driving.
Adjusting Sensitivity
You can adjust the feel and sensitivity of the
steering system to suit your personal
preference:
1. On the touchscreen, touch Controls.
2. Choose a steering option:
• Comfort - Reduces the effort required
to turn the wheel. In town, Model S
feels easier to drive and park.
• Standard - Tesla believes that this
setting offers the best handling and
response in all conditions.
• Sport - Increases the effort required
to turn the wheel. When driving at
higher speeds, Model S feels more
responsive.
The only way to really know which option you
like best is to try them.
Using Left Steering Wheel Buttons
Use the buttons on the left side of the steering
wheel to change radio stations, control the
media player’s volume, and to choose what
displays on the left side of the instrument
panel (whenever the Navigation app is not
displaying instructions).
1. Next
If you are listening to local or satellite
radio and you have defined more than one
radio preset, press to play the next preset
in the radio band that is currently playing.
If you have not defined more than one
preset, press to go to the next available
frequency.
If you are listening to Internet radio, or to
an audio file on a connected Bluetooth or
USB device, press to skip to the next song
or station.
If you have more than one favorite
defined, press and hold to cycle through
favorites.
2. Scroll Wheel
• To adjust the media volume, roll up or
down.
Note: The scroll wheel adjusts the
volume for media, navigation
instructions and phone calls based on
what is currently in use. As you adjust
volume, the instrument panel displays
the volume level and whether you are
adjusting volume for media,
navigation or phone.
• To mute the media volume, or to
pause/play an audio file, tap the scroll
wheel.
• To choose what displays on the left
side of the instrument panel, press the
scroll wheel briefly until the available
options are displayed. Roll the scroll
wheel to choose Empty, Car Status,
Clock, Media, Energy or Trips, etc.
When the option you want is
highlighted, tap the scroll wheel.
Note: The option you choose to
display using the left scroll wheel is
retained until you manually change it.
It is also saved in your driver profile.
Steering Wheel
34 Model S Owner's Manual
3. Previous
Same as described above for Next, except
it skips to the previous song or station. If
you have more than one favorite defined,
press and hold to cycle through favorites.
Note: Regardless of how you customize the
left side of the instrument panel, it
automatically changes to display navigation
instructions (if applicable), or to let you know
if a door or trunk is open when Model S is in a
driving gear.
Using Right Steering Wheel Buttons
Use the buttons on the right side of the
steering wheel to access call options while on
a phone call, to choose what displays on the
right side of the instrument panel, to adjust
Model S features, and to use voice commands.
Note: Whenever you receive or make a phone
call, the right side of the instrument panel
automatically displays call options to help you
easily handle phone calls on your Bluetooth-
connected phone.
1. Press to use a voice command to call a
contact, navigate, or listen to Internet
music. When you hear the tone, speak
your command. Press again to end the
voice command, or simply stop speaking.
For details, see Using Voice Commands on
page 35.
2. Scroll Wheel
• During a phone call, touch the scroll
wheel to display call options that
allow you to perform an action on the
call.
• Roll the wheel to adjust the most
recently used feature from the feature
list (see Menu button).
• To choose what displays on the right
side of the instrument panel, press the
scroll wheel briefly until the available
options are displayed. Roll the scroll
wheel to choose Empty, Car Status,
Clock, Media, Energy or Trips, etc.
When the option you want is
highlighted, tap the scroll wheel.
Note: The option you choose to
display using the right scroll wheel is
retained until you manually change it.
It is also saved in your driver profile.
3. Menu button
Press to display a menu that allows you to
control the following Model S features:
• Temperature. Roll the wheel to change
the driver side temperature, or press
the wheel to turn the climate control
system on and off.
• Fan Speed. Roll the wheel to adjust
the speed of the fan used to cool or
heat the cabin.
• Display Brightness. Roll the wheel to
change the brightness level of the
displays, or press the wheel to restore
default settings.
• Sunroof (if equipped). Roll the wheel
to adjust the position of the sunroof.
• Recent Calls. If your phone is paired to
Model S, roll the wheel to view your
recent calls. Press the wheel to call the
contact that's displayed. To pair your
phone, see Pairing a Bluetooth Phone
on page 107.
Press the menu button again to close the
feature list.
Using Voice Commands
You can use voice commands to call a contact,
navigate to a location, or listen to Internet
music. Tap the voice button on the upper right
side of the steering wheel to initiate a voice
command. When you hear the tone, speak
your command. As you speak, the instrument
panel displays an interpretation of your
command (it also displays tips to remind you
of the type of commands you can speak).
When you finish speaking the command, tap
the voice button again or simply wait.
• To call a contact on your Bluetooth-
connected phone, say “Call” or “Dial,”
followed by the contact’s first and/or last
name(s). For example, “Call Joe” or “Call
Joe Smith.”
Steering Wheel
Driving 35
• To search for, or navigate to, a location,
say “Where is,” “Drive,” or “Navigate,”
followed by an address, business name,
business category, or landmark. For
example, “Drive to Tesla in Palo Alto,”
“Drive to Starbucks on Homestead in
Cupertino,” or “Where is Stanford
University?” If you have defined a
navigation address for your home or work
locations, you can use a voice command
to "Navigate home" or "Navigate to work."
• To listen to an Internet music service, say
“Listen to,” or “Play,” followed by the
name of the song, album, artist or
combination. To improve voice recognition
accuracy, provide multiple cues in your
command, such as artist plus song (for
example, “Play Yellow Brick Road by Elton
John” or “Listen to Yellow Brick Road”).
Note: You can also use voice commands to
provide feedback to Tesla. Say "Note",
"Report", "Bug note", or "Bug report" followed
by your brief comments. Model S takes a
snapshot of its systems, including screen
captures of the touchscreen and instrument
panel. Tesla periodically reviews these notes
and uses them to continue improving Model S.
Heated Steering Wheel
If Model S is equipped with the optional cold
weather package, you can access a control
that instantly warms up the steering wheel by
touching Controls > Cold Weather > Heated
Wheel. When turned on, a heater in the
steering wheel provides radiant heat that
keeps the steering wheel at a comfortable
temperature.
Note: Depending on date of manufacture,
some Model S vehicles equipped with the
optional cold weather package may not
include a heated steering wheel.
Horn
To sound the horn, press the center pad on
the steering wheel.
Steering Wheel
36 Model S Owner's Manual
Adjusting Exterior Side Mirrors
Press the button associated with the mirror
you want to adjust (left or right). The button's
light turns on and you can then press the dial
to move the mirror to the desired position.
Repeat for the other side mirror. If prompted,
touch Save on the touchscreen to save the
mirror adjustment in your driver profile.
To fold and unfold exterior mirrors, press the
center button. You can set the mirrors to fold
automatically whenever Model S is locked by
touching Controls > Settings > Vehicle > Mirror
Auto-Fold > ON.
The driver’s side mirror automatically dims at
night, in proportion to the level of glare from
the headlights of a vehicle behind you (except
when in Reverse gear). Also, both exterior side
mirrors have heaters that turn on and off with
the rear window defroster.
Note: Depending on date of manufacture and
options selected at time of purchase, some
Model S vehicles are not equipped with a side
mirror that automatically dims at night and
may not include heated side mirrors. In
addition, mirror adjustments may not be saved
to your driver profile.
Mirror Auto-tilt When Reversing
Both exterior mirrors can automatically tilt
downward when backing up. To adjust the
auto-tilt position, shift into Reverse, then
adjust the mirrors as described above (press
the button associated with the mirror you
want to adjust, then press the dial to move the
mirror to the desired position). Touch Save on
the touchscreen to save the mirror adjustment
in your driver profile.
When you shift back into Drive, the mirrors tilt
back to their normal (upward) position. But
now that you have adjusted them for backing
up, they automatically tilt to the selected
downward position whenever you shift into
Reverse.
You can turn the auto-tilt feature on or off
using the touchscreen, Touch Controls >
Settings > Vehicle > Mirror Auto-Tilt.
Note: Depending on date of manufacture and
options selected at time of purchase, some
Model S vehicles are not equipped with Mirror
Auto-Tilt.
Rear View Mirror
Except when in Reverse gear, the rear view
mirror automatically dims in proportion to the
level of glare from the headlights of a vehicle
behind you.
Mirrors
Driving 37
Starting
When you open a door, Model S powers on
the instrument panel and touchscreen. The
instrument panel displays the status of doors
and the charge level, and you can operate all
controls.
To drive:
• PRESS THE BRAKE - Model S powers on
and is ready to drive.
• SELECT A GEAR - all the way down for
Drive and all the way up for Reverse.
Everything you need to know when driving
Model S displays on the instrument panel.
Key Not Inside
If Model S does not detect a key when you
press the brake, the instrument panel displays
a message telling you that a key was not
detected.
Place the key in the center console cup holder
where Model S can best detect it.
If Model S still does not detect the key, try
holding it against the center console,
immediately below the 12V power socket (see 
12V Power Socket on page 106). Or try using
another key. If another key does not work,
contact Tesla.
A number of factors can affect whether
Model S can detect the key. These include a
low battery in the key, interference from other
devices using radio signals, and objects
between the key and receiver.
Always keep the key with you. After driving,
you need it to restart Model S after it powers
off. And when you leave Model S, you must
bring it with you to lock Model S, either
manually or automatically (see Walk-away
Locking on page 7).
Powering Off
When you finish driving, shift into Park by
pressing the button on the end of the gear
selector. The parking brake automatically
engages and all systems keep operating.
When you leave Model S with the key, it
powers off automatically, turning off the
touchscreen and instrument panel.
Model S also powers off automatically after
being in Park for 15 minutes, even if you are
sitting in the driver’s seat.
Although usually not needed, you can power
off Model S while you are still sitting in the
driver’s seat, provided the vehicle is not
moving. Touch Controls > E-Brake & Power
Off > Power Off. Model S automatically
powers back on again if you press the brake or
touch anywhere on the touchscreen.
Note: Model S automatically shifts into Park
whenever you leave the vehicle, even if you
shift into Neutral before exiting. To keep
Model S in Neutral, see Keeping Your Vehicle
in Neutral (Tow Mode) on page 39.
Starting and Powering Off
38 Model S Owner's Manual
Shifting Gears
When Model S is in Park, you must press the
brake to shift to another gear.
Move the lever up or down to change gears.
If you try to shift into a gear that the current
driving speed prohibits, you will hear a chime
and the gear does not change.
Reverse
Push the lever all the way up and release. You
can only shift into Reverse when Model S is
stopped or moving less than 8 km/h. If moving
less than 1.6 km/h, you must press the brake.
Neutral
Push the lever up or down to the first position
and release to shift into Neutral. Neutral allows
Model S to roll freely.
If Model S is in Park and you use the
touchscreen to release the parking brake
(Controls > E-Brake & Power Off), Model S
shifts into Neutral (see Parking Brake on page
52).
Model S automatically shifts into Park when
you exit. To leave Model S in Neutral, use the
touchscreen to engage Tow mode (see 
Keeping Your Vehicle in Neutral (Tow Mode)
on page 39).
Drive
Push the lever all the way down and release.
You can shift into Drive when Model S is
stopped or moving less than 8 km/h in
Reverse. If Model S is moving less than
1.6 km/h, you must press the brake to shift into
Drive.
Park
With Model S stopped, press the end of the
gear selector. Whenever Model S is in Park, the
parking brake is applied.
Model S automatically shifts into Park
whenever you:
• Leave the vehicle.
• Connect a charge cable.
To make it convenient to pick up passengers,
you can also unlock all doors and/or extend
the door handles at any time by shifting into
the Park gear then pressing the Park button a
second time.
Keeping Your Vehicle in Neutral
(Tow Mode)
Model S automatically shifts into Park
whenever you finish driving and leave Model S.
To keep Model S in Neutral when you exit,
allowing it to roll freely (for example, pulling
onto a transporter, etc.), activate Tow mode:
1. Shift into Park.
2. Press the brake pedal.
3. Touch Controls > Settings > Service &
Reset > Tow Mode.
Model S beeps, and shifts into Neutral (which
releases the parking brake).
When Tow mode is active, Model S
displays this indicator light on the
instrument panel, along with a
message telling you that Model S will
remain free rolling.
Note: In Tow mode, Model S does not shift into
a driving gear. To cancel Tow mode, shift into
Park or touch Tow mode again. Tow mode also
cancels if you use the touchscreen to apply
the parking brake (Controls > E-Brake & Power
Off > Parking Brake).
Gears
Driving 39
Instrument Panel Overview
The instrument panel changes depending on whether Model S is:
• Off (shown below).
• Driving (see Instrument Panel - Driving on page 43).
• Charging (see Charging Status on page 127).
When Model S is off, the instrument panel shows remaining estimated range, status of doors, and
outside temperature. When you press the brake, indicator lights flash on briefly along the top.
Unless an indicator light applies to a current situation, it should turn off. If an indicator light fails to
turn on or off, contact Tesla.
Note: The following illustration is provided for demonstration purposes only. Depending on vehicle
options, software version, and market region, the information displayed may be slightly different.
The following indicators illuminate on the instrument panel to advise you or alert you of a specific
condition.
Indicat
or
Description
Low beam headlights are on.
High beam headlights are on. Illuminates on a Model S that is equipped with the
optional Autopilot Tech Package only in situations where high beams are on but the
Auto High Beam setting is turned off. See High Beam Headlights on page 48.
High beam headlights are currently turned on, and Auto High Beam is ready to turn off
the high beams if light is detected in front of Model S. See High Beam Headlights on
page 48.
High beam headlights are temporarily turned off because Auto High Beam is on and is
detecting light in front of Model S. When light is no longer detected, the high beams
will automatically turn back on. See High Beam Headlights on page 48.
Parking lights (side marker lights, tail lights, and license plate lights) are on. See Lights
on page 45.
Instrument Panel
40 Model S Owner's Manual
Indicat
or
Description
Front fog lights (optional). See Lights on page 45.
Electronic stability control systems are actively minimizing wheel spin by controlling
brake pressure and motor power (indicator flashes). See Traction Control on page 53.
If this indicator stays illuminated, a fault is detected (contact Tesla immediately).
Smart Air Suspension’s automatic self-leveling is disabled. In other words, Model S is in
Jack mode and is ready to be lifted or pulled onto a transporter. Jack mode cancels
when Model S is driven over 7 km/h. See Smart Air Suspension on page 101.
A Smart Air Suspension fault is detected. Contact Tesla. See Smart Air Suspension on
page 101.
A brake system fault is detected or the brake fluid level is low. See Brakes on page 51.
Contact Tesla immediately.
Airbag safety. If this indicator does not flash on briefly when Model S prepares to drive,
or if it remains on, contact Tesla immediately. See Airbag Warning Indicator on page 31.
An ABS (Anti-lock Braking System) fault is detected. See Brakes on page 51. Contact
Tesla immediately.
The parking brake is manually applied. See Parking Brake on page 52.
A parking brake fault is detected. Contact Tesla. See Parking Brake on page 52.
Vehicle Hold is actively applying the brakes. See Vehicle Hold on page 56.
Tire pressure warning. The pressure of a tire is out of range. If a fault with the Tire
Pressure Monitoring System (TPMS) is detected, the indicator flashes. For a TPMS fault,
contact Tesla. See Tire Care and Maintenance on page 129.
A door or trunk is open. See Doors on page 4, Rear Trunk on page 10, or Front Trunk on
page 12.
A seat belt for an occupied seat is not fastened. See Seat Belts on page 19.
Instrument Panel
Driving 41
Indicat
or
Description
The front passenger’s air bag is turned off. See Airbags on page 28.
Electronic stability control systems are no longer minimizing wheel spin (i.e. on a single
motor vehicle, the traction control system has been turned off, or on a dual-motor
vehicle, Slip Start has been enabled). See Traction Control on page 53.
Model S is in Tow mode and can roll freely. It does not automatically shift into Park
when you exit. See Instructions for Transporters on page 161.
Trailer mode (if equipped) is active.
Flashes green when the left turn signal is operating. Both turn signal indicators flash
green when the hazard warning flashers are operating.
Flashes green when the right turn signal is operating. Both turn signal indicators flash
green when the hazard warning flashers are operating.
Instrument Panel
42 Model S Owner's Manual
Instrument Panel - Driving
When Model S is driving (or ready to drive), the instrument panel shows your current driving
status and a real-time visualization of the road as detected by Model S's Autopilot components
(see About Driver Assistance on page 62).
Note: The following illustration is provided for demonstration purposes only. Depending on vehicle
options, software version, and market region, the information displayed may be slightly different.
1. Indicator lights display along the top to provide status (see Instrument Panel Overview on
page 40).
2. When you are actively navigating to a destination, navigation instructions display here. Use
the left steering wheel buttons to change what displays on the left side of the instrument
panel whenever navigation instructions are not displayed (see Using Left Steering Wheel
Buttons on page 34).
3. Traffic-Aware Cruise Control is cruising at a set speed. When Traffic-Aware Cruise Control is
available but you haven't set a cruising speed, the icon is gray and the speed is not shown
(see Traffic-Aware Cruise Control on page 64).
4. Driving speed.
5. Autosteer is actively steering Model S. When Autosteer is available but you haven't activated
it, the icon is gray (see Autosteer on page 70).
6. On the Energy graph, dashed lines appear on the power meter if Model S is limiting power.
The dashed lines appear on the top portion (energy being used) when power available for
acceleration is being limited, and on the bottom portion (energy being gained) when power
that can be gained by regenerative braking is limited. Model S limits power for many reasons.
Here are just a few examples:
• Acceleration may be limited when the Battery is reaching a low state of charge or if the
powertrain is hot.
• Both acceleration and regenerative braking may be limited when the ambient temperature
is either very high or very low.
• Regenerative braking may be limited when the Battery is fully charged.
Note: Use the right steering wheel buttons to control what displays on the right side of the
instrument panel (see Using Right Steering Wheel Buttons on page 35).
Instrument Panel
Driving 43
7. Pay attention to important alert messages that display here. If any alerts are in effect, you can
view information about them by touching the alert icon (exclamation mark) on the
touchscreen’s status bar (the topmost area of the touchscreen).
8. Use the right steering wheel buttons to change what displays on the right side of the
instrument panel whenever a phone call is not active (see Using Right Steering Wheel Buttons
on page 35).
9. Total estimated driving distance (or energy) available. Instead of driving distance, you can
display the percentage of battery energy remaining. To do so, touch Controls > Settings >
Units & Format > Energy & Charging (see Settings on page 93).
Note: When anticipating when you need to charge, use range estimates as a general guideline
only.
Note: In cold weather, some of the stored energy in the Battery may not be available on your
drive because the Battery is too cold. When this happens, a portion of the Battery meter is
blue and the driving distance value has a snowflake image next to it. If Model S is plugged in,
you can heat your Battery using wall power by turning on climate control using the mobile
app. When the Battery warms up, the blue portion on the meter and the snowflake image are
no longer displayed.
10. The speed limit (if available) that is currently being detected by Speed Assist (see Speed
Assist on page 84).
11. The car in front of you (if applicable).
12. Pay attention to important driving-related messages that appear at the bottom center of the
instrument panel.
13. Your Model S.
14. When Autosteer is active, the driving lane is highlighted in blue (see Autosteer on page 70).
15. Currently selected gear: Park, Reverse, Neutral, or Drive.
Instrument Panel
44 Model S Owner's Manual
Controlling Lights
Touch Controls on the bottom corner of the touchscreen to control most of the lights.
In addition to the lights that you can control from the touchscreen, Model S has convenience lights
that turn on and off automatically based on what you are doing. For example, you will notice
interior lights, marker lights, tail lights, door handle lights, and puddle lights that turn on when you
unlock Model S, when you open a door, and when you shift into Park. They turn off automatically
after a minute or two or when you shift into a driving gear or lock Model S.
Note: Depending on options chosen at time of purchase, some vehicles are not equipped with fog
lights.
Lights
Driving 45
1. If you turn on DOME lights, all interior dome (map) lights turn on when you unlock Model S,
open a door upon exiting, or shift into P (Park). They turn off after 60 seconds, when you lock
Model S, or when you shift into a driving gear. If set to AUTO, dome lights turn on only when
little or no light is detected.
You can also manually turn an individual dome light on or off by pressing its lens. If you
manually turn a dome light on, it turns off when Model S powers off. If Model S was already
powered off when you manually turned the light on, it turns off after 60 minutes.
2. If you turn on AMBIENT lights, the lights on the door armrests turn on whenever the
headlights are on.
3. If you turn on AUTO HIGH BEAM, high beam headlights turn on and off automatically based
on whether or not light is detected in front of Model S (see High Beam Headlights on page
48). This feature is available only if Model S is equipped with the optional Autopilot Tech
Package.
4. Touch to turn fog lights (if equipped) on or off. Fog lights operate only when low beam
headlights are on. Fog lights do not operate when headlights are turned off or when high
beam headlights are on.
The Front Fog indicator displays on the instrument panel whenever front fog
lights are on.
The Rear Fog indicator displays on the instrument panel whenever rear fog
lights are on.
Note: Depending on the market region and vehicle options, your vehicle may not be equipped
with front and/or rear fog lights.
Note: In some regions, there is no control for the front fog lights. They operate in conjunction
with the headlights and turn on only in situations where low beam headlights are on.
Lights
46 Model S Owner's Manual
5. If Model S is equipped with a coil suspension system, you can adjust the angle of the
headlights to accommodate the load you are carrying. You may need to lower the angle of the
headlights to avoid blinding oncoming drivers in situations when you are carrying a significant
amount of weight in the rear trunk. After touching LEVEL, drag the slider to the desired
position:
0 Headlights are not lowered. No change is needed when all front and rear seats are
occupied and only the front trunk is laden.
1 Headlights are lowered one level. Suitable when the front and rear seats are
occupied and the rear trunk is laden.
2 Headlights are lowered two levels. Suitable when carrying heavy loads.
Note: Headlight adjustments are not available if Model S is equipped with Smart Air
Suspension because Model S levels automatically.
6. Exterior lights (headlights, tail lights, side marker lights, parking lights, and license plate
lights) are set to AUTO each time you start Model S.
AUTO
Exterior lights automatically turn on when driving in low lighting
conditions. If you change to a different setting, lights always revert to this
AUTO setting on your next drive.
Touch one of these options to temporarily change the exterior light setting:
OFF
Exterior lights turn off until you manually turn them back on or until the
next time you drive Model S. If daytime running lights are required in your
region, the exterior lights used for this purpose do not turn off.
Only the side marker lights, parking lights, tail lights and license plate
lights turn on.
Exterior lights turn on.
Note: Model S has a series of lights along the lower rim of the headlights, also referred to as
"signature" lights. These lights automatically turn on whenever Model S is powered on and a
driving gear is engaged.
Warning: Always ensure that your headlamps are switched to AUTO or ON, as
appropriate, during all low visibility conditions. Failure to do so may result in a collision.
Lights
Driving 47
High Beam Headlights
Push the left-hand steering column lever away
from you. To cancel, pull the lever toward you.
If Model S is equipped with Driver Assistance
components (see About Driver Assistance on
page 62), and you have purchased the
optional Autopilot Tech Package, the high
beam headlights can automatically switch to
low beam when there is light detected in front
of Model S (for example, from an oncoming
vehicle or street lights). To turn this feature on,
touch Controls > Auto High Beam.
Note: Your chosen setting is retained until you
manually change it. It can also be saved in
your driver profile.
In situations where high beams are turned off
because Auto High Beam is turned on and
light is detected in front of Model S, you can
temporarily turn on high beams by pulling the
lever all the way toward you.
The following indicator light islights are visible
on the instrument panel when high beams are
turned on:
High beams are turned on.
High beams are turned on and the
Auto High Beam setting is turned
off.
High beams are currently turned on,
and Auto High Beam is ready to turn
off the high beams if light is
detected in front of Model S.
High beams are temporarily turned
off because Auto High Beam is on
and is detecting light in front of
Model S. When light is no longer
detected, the high beams will
automatically turn back on.
To flash the headlight high beams, pull the
lever fully toward you and release.
Warning: Auto High Beam is an aid only
and is subject to limitations. It is the
driver's responsibility to make sure that
the headlights are always adjusted as
appropriate for the weather conditions
and driving circumstances.
Headlights After Exit
When you stop driving and park Model S in
low lighting conditions, the exterior lights
automatically turn on. They automatically turn
off after one minute or when you lock
Model S.
You can turn this feature on and off using the
touchscreen. Touch Controls > Settings >
Vehicle > Headlights After Exit. When
Headlights After Exit is set to Off, the
headlights turn off when you engage the Park
gear.
Adaptive Front Lighting System
(AFS)
The Adaptive Front Lighting System (AFS)
automatically adjusts the beam of the
headlights to improve your driving view.
Electric sensors measure driving speed,
steering angle and yaw (the rotation of the car
around the vertical axis) to determine the
optimum position of the headlights based on
current driving conditions. For example, to
improve visibility while driving on winding
roads at night, the AFS casts the beam in the
direction of the curve. When low beam
headlights are turned on and when driving at
lower speeds, AFS improves lateral
illumination to increase the visibility of
pedestrians and curbs, and to improve
visibility when turning at a dark intersection,
into a driveway, or when making a u-turn.
The Adaptive Front Lighting System (AFS)
operates whenever headlights are on. If
Model S isn't moving, or is moving in reverse,
the adaptive headlights do not activate. This
prevents the lights from inadvertently blinding
other drivers. To turn the AFS off, touch
Controls > Settings > Vehicle > Adaptive
Headlights > OFF.
If the AFS fails, the instrument panel
displays an alert. Contact Tesla
Service.
Lights
48 Model S Owner's Manual
Turn Signals
Move the left-hand steering column lever up
(before turning right) or down (before turning
left).
The turn signals stop operating when canceled
by the steering wheel, or when you return the
lever to the central position.
The corresponding turn signal
indicator lights up on the instrument
panel when a turn signal is
operating. You also hear a clicking
sound.
Warning: If Model S is equipped with both
Autopilot hardware and the optional
Autopilot Tech Package, and Traffic-
Aware Cruise Control is active, engaging
a turn signal can cause Model S to
accelerate when using Traffic-Aware
Cruise Control in specific situations (see 
Overtake Acceleration on page 67).
Warning: If Model S is equipped with both
Autopilot hardware and the optional
Autopilot Tech Package, and Autosteer is
active, engaging a turn signal can cause
Model S to change lanes (see Auto Lane
Change on page 73).
Lane Change Flash
To indicate a lane change, quickly press the
lever up or down against the spring pressure,
then release. The corresponding turn signal
flashes three times.
Hazard Warning Flashers
To turn on the hazard warning flashers, press
the button located on the side of the
touchscreen closest to the steering wheel. All
turn signals flash. Press again to turn off.
Note: Hazard warning flashers operate even
without a Model S key nearby.
Lights
Driving 49
Wipers
To wipe the windshield, rotate the end of the
left-hand steering column lever away from
you. You can choose from four levels:
• 1st: Auto with low rain sensitivity.*
• 2nd: Auto with high rain sensitivity.*
• 3rd: Continuous, slow.
• 4th: Continuous, fast.
For a single wipe, press and release the end of
the lever.
If the wipers are set to Auto and the sensor
detects no water, the wipers do not wipe.
When you operate the wipers, headlights
automatically turn on (if they are not on
already).
*Model S has a rain sensor located on the
inside of the windshield at the base of the
interior mirror. When wipers are set to Auto,
the frequency at which they wipe depends on
how much water the sensor detects. When
wipers are set to the 2nd level, the sensor is
more sensitive.
To extend the life of wiper blades, remove ice
from the windshield before turning wipers on.
Ice has sharp edges that can damage the
rubber on the blades.
Periodically check and clean the edge of the
wiper blade. If damaged, replace the blade
immediately. For details on checking and
replacing wiper blades, see Wipers and
Washers on page 50.
Caution: In harsh climates, ensure that the
wiper blades are not frozen or adhered to
the windshield.
De-icing Wipers
To make wiper blades easy to access so you
can remove any ice and snow, shift Model S
into Park, turn the wipers off, then use the
touchscreen to move them to the service
position. Touch Controls > Settings > Service &
Reset > Service Mode > ON. When parking in
cold outdoor climates, it is helpful to leave
Model S with the wipers in the service
position. In this position, they are closer to the
defrost vent, allowing you to thaw them by
directing air from the climate control system
towards the windshield.
Note: Wipers automatically return to their
normal position when you shift Model S out of
Park.
If Model S is equipped with the optional cold
weather package, you can de-ice wipers by
touching Controls > Cold Weather > Heated
Wipers. Wiper heaters automatically turns off
after 15 minutes.
Washers
Press the button on the end of the left
steering column lever to spray washer fluid
onto the windshield. You can press this button
at two levels. Press partially for a single wipe,
without any washer fluid. Press fully for both
wipe and wash. When washing the windshield,
the wipers will perform two wipes after you
release the button, then a third wipe a few
seconds later.
Periodically top up washer fluid (see Topping
Up Washer Fluid on page 146).
De-icing Washer Nozzles
If Model S is equipped with the optional cold
weather package, washer nozzles have de-
icers that turn on whenever the ambient
temperature nears freezing, or when you turn
on the heated wipers (Controls > Cold
Weather > Heated Wipers). The washer de-
icers turn off when the heated wipers turn off
(after 15 minutes), provided the temperature is
warm enough to prevent freezing.
Wipers and Washers
50 Model S Owner's Manual
Braking Systems
Model S has an anti-lock braking system (ABS)
that prevents the wheels from locking when
you apply maximum brake pressure. This
improves steering control during heavy
braking in most road conditions.
During emergency braking conditions, the
ABS constantly monitors the speed of each
wheel and varies the brake pressure according
to the grip available.
The alteration of brake pressure can be felt as
a pulsing sensation through the brake pedal.
This demonstrates that the ABS is operating
and is not a cause for concern. Keep firm and
steady pressure on the brake pedal while
experiencing the pulsing.
The ABS indicator flashes briefly on
the instrument panel when you first
start Model S. If this indicator lights
up at any other time, an ABS fault
has occurred and the ABS is not
operating. Contact Tesla. The braking
system remains fully operational and
is not affected by an ABS failure.
However, braking distances may
increase.
If the instrument panel displays this
indicator at any time other than
displaying briefly when you first start
Model S, a brake system fault is
detected or the brake fluid level is
low. Contact Tesla immediately.
Emergency Braking
In an emergency, fully press the brake pedal
and maintain firm pressure, even on low
traction surfaces. The ABS varies the braking
pressure to each wheel according to the
amount of traction available. This prevents
wheels from locking and ensures that you stop
as safely as possible.
Warning: Do not pump the brake pedal.
Doing so interrupts operation of the ABS
and can increase braking distance.
Warning: Always maintain a safe distance
from the vehicle in front of you and be
aware of hazardous driving conditions.
While the ABS can improve stopping
distance, it cannot overcome the laws of
physics. It also does not prevent the
danger of hydroplaning (where a layer of
water prevents direct contact between
the tires and the road).
If Model S is equipped with Autopilot
hardware, Automatic Emergency Braking
automatically applies full braking in situations
where a collision is considered imminent (see 
Automatic Emergency Braking on page 82).
Brake Wear
Model S brake pads are equipped with wear
indicators. A wear indicator is a thin metal
strip attached to the brake pad that squeals as
it rubs against the rotor when the pad wears
down. This squealing sound indicates that the
brake pads have reached the end of their
service life and require replacement. To stop
the squealing, contact Tesla Service.
Brakes must be periodically inspected visually
by removing the tire and wheel. For detailed
specifications and service limits for rotors and
brake pads, see Brakes on page 155.
Warning: Neglecting to replace worn
brake pads results in damage to the
braking system and can create a braking
hazard.
Brakes
Driving 51
Regenerative Braking
Whenever Model S is moving and your foot is
off the accelerator, regenerative braking slows
down Model S and feeds any surplus energy
back to the Battery.
By anticipating your stops and simply
removing pressure from the accelerator to
slow down, you can take advantage of
regenerative braking to increase driving range.
Of course, this is no substitute for regular
braking when needed for safety.
Note: If regenerative braking is aggressively
slowing Model S, such as on a steep descent,
brake lights turn on to alert other road users
that you are slowing down.
The Energy app displays real-time feedback
on the amount of energy being gained by
regenerative braking. You can also display the
power meter on either side of the instrument
panel by choosing Energy using the scroll
button on the steering wheel (see Steering
Wheel on page 34).
The amount of energy fed back to the Battery
using regenerative braking can depend on the
current state of the Battery and the charge
level setting that you are using. If regenerative
braking is limited, a dashed yellow line
displays on the power meter. For example,
regenerative braking may be limited if the
Battery is already fully charged or if the
ambient temperature is low.
To Set the Regenerative Braking Level
You can use the touchscreen to change the
level of regenerative braking:
1. Touch Controls > Driving > Regenerative
Braking.
2. Choose from two levels:
• Standard. Provides the standard
amount of regenerative braking. When
you release the accelerator, Model S
slows down, reducing the need to use
the brakes.
• Low. Limits regenerative braking.
When you release the accelerator,
Model S takes longer to slow down
and coasts further.
Parking Brake
The parking brake automatically engages
when you shift Model S into Park, and releases
when you shift into any other gear.
Note: The parking brake operates on the rear
wheels only, and is independent of the foot-
operated brake system.
Use the touchscreen to manually release the
parking brake (which also shifts Model S into
Neutral):
1. Touch Controls > E-Brake & Power Off.
2. Press the brake pedal, then touch Parking
Brake. If Model S was previously in Park, it
shifts into Neutral.
The parking brake indicator lights up
on the instrument panel whenever
you use the touchscreen to manually
apply the parking brake.
If an electrical issue occurs with the
parking brake, an amber parking
brake fault message displays at the
top center of the touchscreen.
Caution: In the unlikely event that Model S
loses electrical power, you cannot release
the parking brake.
Brakes
52 Model S Owner's Manual
How It Works
The traction control system constantly
monitors the speed of the front and rear
wheels. If Model S experiences a loss of
traction, the system minimizes wheel spin by
controlling brake pressure and motor power.
By default, the traction control system is
always active. Under normal conditions, it
should remain active to ensure maximum
safety.
This indicator flashes on the
instrument panel whenever the
traction control system is actively
controlling brake pressure and motor
power to minimize wheel spin. If the
indicator stays on, a fault is detected
with the traction control system.
Contact Tesla Service.
Warning: Traction control cannot prevent
accidents caused by driving dangerously
or turning too sharply at high speeds.
Warning: If the above indicator remains
illuminated in situations in which you have
not enabled Slip Start (described next),
the traction control system may not be
operating correctly. Contact Tesla Service
immediately.
Allowing Wheel Slip
To allow the wheels to spin at a limited speed,
you can enable Slip Start. Slip Start can be
enabled only when Model S is moving
48 km/h or slower. Slip Start automatically
disables when the speed exceeds 80 km/h.
Under normal conditions, Slip Start should not
be enabled. Enable it only in circumstances
where you deliberately want the wheels to
spin, such as:
• Starting on a loose surface, such as gravel
or snow.
• Driving in deep snow, sand or mud.
• Rocking out of a hole or deep rut.
To allow the wheels to spin, touch Controls >
Driving > Traction Control > Slip Start.
The instrument panel displays an
alert message when Slip Start is
enabled.
Although Slip Start is automatically disabled
the next time you start Model S, it is strongly
recommended that you disable it immediately
after the circumstances that required you to
enable it have passed.
Traction Control
Driving 53
How Park Assist Works
Model S has several sensors designed to
detect the presence of objects nearby. When
moving slowly in Drive or Reverse, the sensors
alert you if an object is detected in close
proximity to the front and rear of your
Model S.
Note: Depending on date of manufacture and
options selected at time of purchase, some
Model S vehicles are not equipped with the
parking sensors.
Warning: The Park Assist images provided
below are representative only. The exact
number and location of sensors may vary
depending on the date your Model S was
manufactured.
The sensors are activated when driving less
than 8 km/h.
Warning: Never depend on Park Assist to
inform you if an area you are approaching
is free of objects and/or people. Several
external factors can reduce the
performance of Park Assist, causing
either no readings or false readings (see 
Limitations and False Warnings on page
55). Therefore, depending on Park Assist
to determine if Model S is approaching an
obstruction can result in damage to the
vehicle and/or objects, and can
potentially cause serious injury. Always
inspect the area with your own eyes.
When reversing, perform shoulder checks
and use all mirrors. Park assist does not
detect children, pedestrians, bicyclists,
animals, or objects that are moving,
protruding, located too far above or
below the sensors, or too close or too far
from the sensors. Park Assist is for
guidance purposes only and is not
intended to replace your own direct visual
checks. It is not a substitute for careful
driving.
Visual and Audio Feedback
When you shift to Reverse, the Park Assist
view displays on the left side of the instrument
panel, showing any objects that are in close
proximity to the front and rear of Model S.
This view closes when you shift into Drive
unless objects are detected close to the front
of the Model S, in which case the Park Assist
view closes automatically when your driving
speed exceeds 8 km/h. When reversing, visual
feedback also displays on the touchscreen,
immediately below the camera view (see Rear
View Camera on page 61). You can manually
close the park assist view on the touchscreen
by touching the X in the upper left corner.
When driving with the Camera app displayed
on the touchscreen, you can switch to the
Park Assist view when driving at speeds below
8 km/h. Touch the button located in the upper
left corner of the Camera app window. This is
useful if you need assistance with parallel
parking.
If chimes are turned on (see Controlling
Audible Feedback on page 55), an audible
beep sounds as you approach an object. You
can temporarily mute the chime by pressing
the scroll wheel on the left side of the steering
wheel or by touching the mute button located
on the in the bottom left corner of the Park
Assist view.
Note: If Model S is equipped with software
version 6.1 or newer, and you are driving with
the camera app displayed on the touchscreen,
you can switch to the Park Assist view by
touching the icon in the upper left corner of
the camera app window. You must be driving
at speeds below 8 km/h.
Park Assist
54 Model S Owner's Manual
Note: If a sensor is unable to provide
feedback, the instrument panel displays an
alert message.
Caution: Keep sensors clean from dirt,
debris, snow, and ice. Avoid using a high
pressure power washer on the sensors
and do not clean a sensor with a sharp or
abrasive object that can scratch or
damage its surface.
Caution: Do not install accessories or
stickers on or near the parking sensors.
Controlling Audible Feedback
You can use Park Assist with or without
audible feedback. To turn chimes on or off,
touch Controls > Settings > Safety &
Security > Park Assist Chimes.
You can also mute the chimes temporarily by
pressing the scroll wheel on the left side of the
steering wheel or by touching the mute button
in the bottom left corner of the Park Assist
view. The chimes are muted until you shift into
a different gear or drive over 8 km/h.
Limitations and False Warnings
The parking sensors may not function
correctly in these situations:
• One or more of the parking sensors is
damaged, dirty, or covered (such as mud,
ice, or snow).
• Object is located below approximately
20 cm (such as a curb or low barrier).
• Weather conditions (heavy rain, snow, or
fog) are interfering with sensor operation.
• Object is thin (such as a sign post).
• A sensor’s operating range has been
exceeded.
• Object is sound-absorbing or soft (such as
powder snow).
• Object is sloped (such as a sloped
embankment).
• Model S has been parked in, or being
driven in, extremely hot or cold
temperatures.
• The sensors are affected by other
electrical equipment or devices that
generate ultrasonic waves.
• Object is located too close to the bumper.
• A bumper is misaligned or damaged.
• An object that is mounted to Model S is
interfering with and/or obstructing the
sensor (such as a bike rack or a bumper
sticker).
Other Parking Aids
In addition to Park Assist, when shifted into
Reverse gear, the backup camera displays a
view of the area behind Model S (see Rear
View Camera on page 61).
Park Assist
Driving 55
When Model S is stopped, Vehicle Hold
continues to apply the brakes even after you
remove your foot from the brake pedal. When
driving on a hill or on a flat surface, brake as
you normally would. You can release the brake
pedal, and remain stopped (even on a hill),
whenever the instrument panel displays the
Vehicle Hold indicator light.
This indicator displays on the
instrument panel whenever Vehicle
Hold is engaged.
To disengage Vehicle Hold, press the
accelerator pedal or press and release the
brake pedal.
Note: Shifting into Neutral also disengages
Vehicle Hold.
Note: After actively braking Model S for
approximately 10 minutes, Model S shifts into
Park and Vehicle Hold cancels. Model S also
shifts into Park if it detects that the driver has
left the vehicle.
Vehicle Hold
56 Model S Owner's Manual
Performance Dual-Motor Vehicles
Only
Launch Mode, available on performance dual-
motor vehicles only, provides optimum
acceleration on surfaces with good traction.
Warning: Use Launch Mode only in
appropriate locations where there is no
cross traffic or pedestrians present.
Launch Mode is designed for use on
closed circuit driving courses. It is the
driver’s responsibility to ensure that
driving style and acceleration do not
endanger or inconvenience other road
users.
To Activate Launch Mode
Before activating Launch Mode, it is
recommended that the brakes are slightly
warm by driving for a few minutes and using
the brakes a few times.
1. Set the acceleration level to Insane or
Ludicrous and enable Max Battery Power
(see Controls on page 90).
2. With Model S shifted into Drive and at a
complete stop with the steering wheel
straight, fully press the brake pedal with
your left foot.
3. While still pressing the brake with your left
foot, fully press the accelerator pedal with
your right foot, then release the
accelerator pedal. The instrument panel
displays a message indicating that Launch
Mode is enabled.
4. Within eight seconds, fully press the
accelerator pedal a second time to pre-
load motor torque, then within four
seconds, release the brake.
When you release the brake, Model S launches
forward.
Note: Launch Mode is not available if Slip Start
has been enabled (i.e. wheels can spin). See 
Traction Control on page 53.
Note: You can use Launch Mode immediately
after enabling Max Battery Power. There is no
need to wait until Max Battery Power is in its
READY state.
Limitations
Launch Mode is available only if the ambient
temperature is 3° C or warmer.
Launch Mode
Driving 57
Displaying Trip Information
Trip information displays on the touchscreen
when you touch Controls > Trips. For the
current trip, you can display distance, duration
and average energy usage. You can also show
distance and total and average energy used
since your last charge and for additional trips.
To name or rename a trip, touch the trip's
name, enter a new name for the trip, then
press Save. To reset a particular trip meter,
touch its associated Reset button.
You can display information for up to three
trips on the instrument panel. Use the
checkboxes to specify the trip(s) you want to
display. Then use the scroll bar on the steering
wheel to display the chosen trip(s) (see Using
Left Steering Wheel Buttons on page 34 or 
Using Right Steering Wheel Buttons on page
35).
Odometer
To display the odometer, touch the Tesla “T” at
the top center of the touchscreen.
Trip Information
58 Model S Owner's Manual
Driving Tips to Maximize Range
You can maximize your driving range using
the same driving habits that you use to
conserve fuel in a gasoline-powered vehicle. In
addition to driving habits, energy
consumption depends on environmental
conditions (such as cold weather and hilly
roads). To get the maximum mileage from a
charge:
• Slow down your driving and avoid
frequent and rapid acceleration.
• Instead of using the brake pedal to slow
down, modulate the accelerator pedal.
Whenever Model S is moving and you are
not pressing the accelerator pedal,
regenerative braking slows down Model S
and feeds surplus energy back to the
Battery (see Regenerative Braking on
page 52).
• Keep tires at the recommended inflation
pressures (see Tire Care and Maintenance
on page 129).
• Lighten your load by removing any
unnecessary cargo.
• Limit the use of resources such as heating
and air conditioning. Using seat heaters to
keep warm is more efficient than heating
the cabin. To automatically limit the
amount of power that the climate control
system uses to maintain the temperature
of the Battery and the cabin area, touch
Controls > Driving > Range Mode > ON.
The power meter on the instrument panel and
the Energy app (described next) provide
feedback on energy usage. With this
feedback, you will soon become familiar with
how driving habits and environmental
conditions impact how much energy Model S
is using.
Energy App
Use the Energy app to view real-time and
projected energy usage. Choose from two
types of charts:
• Consumption Chart - display how much
energy Model S has consumed over the
past 10, 25 or 50 km.
Touch the Average Range button to
display a graph of the average energy
consumed over the past 10, 25 or 50 km.
The average range and the energy usage
data are used to predict the projected
range. Touch the Instant Range button to
display a graph of the energy consumed
over the last few data points only. The
instant range and the energy usage data
are used to calculate the projected range.
• Trip Chart - If your Model S is equipped
with the premium navigation option, you
can monitor the amount of energy being
used while navigating to a destination.
You can track actual usage against the
initial prediction. The green line represents
the actual usage whereas the gray line
represents predicted usage. To change the
zoom level, touch the zoom icon located
in the top right corner of the chart.
Note: The Trip Chart displays energy usage
only if you are currently navigating to a
destination.
Saving Energy
Model S has an energy-saving feature that
reduces the amount of energy being
consumed when Model S is not in use. Touch
Controls > Displays > Energy Saving and
choose from the following options:
• OFF. Model S shifts to the energy-saving
mode at night (10 pm to 5 am).
• ON. Significantly less energy is consumed
whenever Model S is not in use. The start-
up time of the instrument panel and
Bluetooth could be slower.
• Always Connected. Preserves cell
connectivity when energy saving is active.
This allows the mobile app to connect to
Model S more quickly, and provide
immediate internet access when entering
the car. Slightly more energy is consumed.
Range Assurance
Model S protects you against running out of
energy. Model S continuously monitors its
energy level and proximity to known charging
locations.
Touch the range assurance icon, located in the
top right corner of the map/navigation
window, to control what charging stations
display on the map:
Getting Maximum Range
Driving 59
The map displays superchargers
only.
The map displays all visited
chargers, Chademo chargers, and
destination chargers. In situations
where a charging location may not
be reachable based on your
currently available driving range, its
associated icon on othe map
displays as semi-transparent.
When you are at risk of driving beyond the
range of known charging locations, a popup
message displays on the touchscreen giving
you the opportunity to display a list of
charging locations that are within range. When
you select a charging location from the list,
Model S provides navigation instructions and
the turn-by-turn direction list displays the
predicted amount of energy that will remain
when you arrive at the charging destination.
In addition to the popup message that
displays when you are at risk of driving
beyond the range of known charging
locations, a warning symbol displays on the
range assurance icon:
Touch to display a search list of
charging locations that are
estimated to be within your driving
range. Then touch a location in the
search list to navigate to it.
Based on the amount of energy
remaining in your Model S, there
are no known charging locations
within your driving range.
Getting Maximum Range
60 Model S Owner's Manual
Camera Location
Model S is equipped with a rear view camera
located above the rear license plate.
Whenever you shift into Reverse, the
touchscreen displays the view from the
camera. Guide lines show your driving path
based on the position of the steering wheel.
These guide lines adjust appropriately as you
move the steering wheel.
Note: Visual feedback from the parking
sensors displays below the camera image (see 
Park Assist on page 54).
Note: Depending on date of manufacture and
options selected at time of purchase, some
Model S vehicles are not equipped with
parking sensors.
Warning: Never depend on the rear view
camera to inform you if the area behind
you is free of objects and/or people when
reversing. The camera may not detect
objects or barriers that can potentially
cause damage or injury. In addition,
several external factors can reduce the
performance of the camera, including a
dirty or obstructed lens. Therefore,
depending on the rear view camera to
determine if Model S is approaching an
obstruction can result in damage to the
vehicle and/or objects, and can
potentially cause serious injury. Always
inspect the area with your own eyes.
When reversing, perform shoulder checks
and use all mirrors. Use the camera for
guidance purposes only. It is not intended
to replace your own direct visual checks
and is not a substitute for careful driving.
Cleaning the Camera
To ensure a clear picture, keep the camera lens
clean, and free of obstructions. Remove any
buildup of dirt by occasionally wiping the
camera lens with a soft damp cloth.
Caution: Do not use chemical-based or
abrasive cleaners. Doing so can damage
the surface of the camera lens.
Rear View Camera
Driving 61
Driver Assistance Components
Model S includes the following Driver Assistance components that actively monitor the
surrounding roadway:
1. Ultrasonic sensors are located near the front and rear bumpers.
2. A forward looking camera is mounted on the windshield above the rear view mirror.
3. Radar is mounted behind the front bumper on the left side of the vehicle.
Driver Assistance vehicles also include high precision electrically-assisted braking and steering
systems.
About Driver Assistance
62 Model S Owner's Manual
Driver Assistance Features
These safety features are available on all
Model S vehicles equipped with Driver
Assistance components:
• Lane Assist (see Lane Assist on page
79).
• Collision Avoidance Assist (see Collision
Avoidance Assist on page 81).
• Speed Assist (see Speed Assist on page
84).
These convenience features, designed to
reduce driver workload, are available only if
Model S is equipped with the optional
Autopilot Tech Package:
• Traffic-Aware Cruise Control (see Traffic-
Aware Cruise Control on page 64).
• Autosteer (see Autosteer on page 70).
• Auto Lane Change (see Auto Lane
Change on page 73).
• Autopark (see Autopark on page 75).
• Auto High Beam (see High Beam
Headlights on page 48).
You can enable/disable driver assistance
features and in some cases, control how they
work. To access settings for Driver Assistance
features, touch Controls > Settings > Driver
Assistance.
Limitations
Many factors can impact the performance of
Driver Assistance components, causing them
to be unable to function as intended. These
include (but are not limited to):
• Poor visibility (due to heavy rain, snow,
fog, etc.).
• Bright light (oncoming headlights or
direct sunlight).
• Damage or obstructions caused by mud,
ice, snow, etc.
• Interference or obstruction by object(s)
mounted onto Model S (such as a bike
rack).
• Obstruction caused by applying adhesive
products onto Model S (such as wraps,
stickers, rubber coating, etc.).
• Narrow or winding roads.
• A damaged or misaligned bumper.
• Interference from other equipment that
generates ultrasonic waves.
• Extremely hot or cold temperatures.
Warning: The list above does not
represent an exhaustive list of situations
that may interfere with proper operation
of Driver Assistance components. Never
depend on these components to keep
you safe. It is the driver's responsibility to
stay alert, drive safely, and be in control
of the vehicle at all times.
Caution: If a windshield replacement is
needed on a Model S equipped with the
forward looking camera, you must take
your vehicle to Tesla Service. This will
ensure appropriate handling and
mounting of the camera. Failure to do so
can cause one or more Driver Assistance
features to malfunction.
Cleaning Driver Assistance
Components
To ensure the various Driver Assistance
components can provide information that is as
accurate as possible, keep them clean and free
of obstructions. Occasionally remove any
buildup of dirt by wiping with a soft cloth
dampened with warm water.
Caution: Do not use chemical-based or
abrasive cleaners. Doing so can damage
surfaces.
Caution: Avoid using a high-pressure
power washer.
Caution: Do not clean an ultrasonic sensor
with a sharp or abrasive object that can
scratch or damage its surface.
About Driver Assistance
Driver Assistance 63
If Model S is equipped with Driver Assistance
components (see About Driver Assistance on
page 62) and you have purchased the optional
Autopilot Tech Package, the forward looking
camera and the radar sensor are designed to
determine when there is a vehicle in front of
you in the same lane. If the area in front of
Model S is clear, Traffic-Aware Cruise Control
maintains a set driving speed. When a vehicle
is detected, Traffic-Aware Cruise Control is
designed to slow down Model S as needed to
maintain a selected time-based distance from
the vehicle in front, up to the set speed.
Traffic-Aware Cruise Control does not
eliminate the need to watch the road in front
of you and to apply the brakes when needed.
Traffic-Aware Cruise Control is primarily
intended for driving on dry, straight roads,
such as highways and freeways. It should not
be used on city streets.
Warning: Traffic-Aware Cruise Control is
designed for your driving comfort and
convenience and is not a collision warning
or avoidance system. It is your
responsibility to stay alert, drive safely,
and be in control of the vehicle at all
times. Never depend on Traffic-Aware
Cruise Control to adequately slow down
Model S. Always watch the road in front
of you and be prepared to take corrective
action at all times. Failure to do so can
result in serious injury or death.
Warning: Although Traffic-Aware Cruise
Control is capable of detecting
pedestrians and cyclists, never depend on
Traffic-Aware Cruise Control to
adequately slow down Model S for them.
Always watch the road in front of you and
be prepared to take corrective action at
all times. Failure to do so can result in
serious injury or death.
Warning: Do not use Traffic-Aware Cruise
Control on city streets or on roads where
traffic conditions are constantly changing.
Warning: Do not use Traffic-Aware Cruise
Control on winding roads with sharp
curves, on icy or slippery road surfaces,
or when weather conditions (such as
heavy rain, snow, fog, etc) make it
inappropriate to drive at a consistent
speed. Traffic-Aware Cruise Control does
not adapt driving speed based on road
and driving conditions.
Operating Traffic-Aware Cruise
Control
The instrument panel
displays a gray speedometer
icon on the left side of the
driving speed to indicate
that Traffic-Aware Cruise
Control is available but the
cruising speed has not been
set. Unless a vehicle is
detected ahead of you, you
must be driving at least
8 km/h to use Traffic-Aware
Cruise Control. If a vehicle is
detected ahead of you, you
can use Traffic-Aware Cruise
Control at any speed, even
when stationary.
When driving at your desired speed, set the
cruising speed by moving the cruise control
lever up or down (or pulling it briefly toward
you), then releasing.
The speedometer icon on the
instrument panel turns blue
and displays the set speed to
indicate that Traffic-Aware
Cruise Control is actively
maintaining the set speed.
You can now release the accelerator pedal and
allow Traffic-Aware Cruise Control to maintain
your set speed. When no vehicle is detected
ahead, Traffic-Aware Cruise Control maintains
the set speed. If a vehicle is detected, Traffic-
Aware Cruise Control maintains your chosen
following distance, up to the set speed,
accelerating and decelerating Model S as
needed. When the vehicle you are following is
no longer detected, Traffic-Aware Cruise
Control accelerates back to the set speed.
Traffic-Aware Cruise Control also adjusts the
speed as appropriate when entering and
exiting curves.
Traffic-Aware Cruise Control
64 Model S Owner's Manual
You can accelerate at any time when driving at
a set speed using Traffic-Aware Cruise Control.
But when you release the accelerator, Model S
returns to the set speed.
When following a vehicle, Traffic-Aware Cruise
Control remains active at low speeds, even if
Model S comes to a standstill while following a
vehicle. When traffic is moving again, Traffic-
Aware Cruise Control resumes operating at
your currently set speed. However, if an or
object is detected in front of Model S, Traffic-
Aware Cruise Control goes into a HOLD state
and the instrument panel displays a message
indicating that you need to resume cruise
control. To resume, press the accelerator pedal
or pull the cruise control lever toward you (see 
Canceling and Resuming on page 68).
In right hand traffic, engaging the right turn
signal when driving in the right-most lane
within 50 meters of an exit (on a controlled
access road only, such as a highway or
freeway), causes Traffic-Aware Cruise Control
to assume you are exiting. As a result, Traffic-
Aware Cruise Control begins to slow down the
vehicle. Likewise in left hand traffic, when
engaging the left turn signal when driving in
the left-most lane within 50 meters of an exit.
The onboard GPS (Global Positioning System)
determines if you are driving in a region with
right or left hand traffic. In situations where
GPS data is unavailable (for example,
inadequate signal), engaging the turn signal
near an exit does not cause Traffic-Aware
Cruise Control to slow down the vehicle.
Note: If you double-pull the cruise control
lever (or single-pull when Traffic-Aware Cruise
Control is active), Autosteer activates and the
set speed changes to either your current
driving speed, or the speed limit plus any
offset you have defined, whichever is greater
(see Cruising at the Speed Limit on page
66).
Note: When Traffic-Aware Cruise Control is
actively slowing down Model S to maintain the
selected distance from the vehicle ahead, the
brake lights turn on to alert other road users
that you are slowing down. You may also
notice slight movement of the brake pedal.
Warning: Due to limitations inherent in
the onboard GPS, you may experience
situations in which Traffic-Aware Cruise
Control slows down the vehicle, especially
near highway exits where a curve is
detected and/or you are actively
navigating to a destination and not
following the route.
Warning: Traffic-Aware Cruise Control can
not detect all objects and may not brake/
decelerate for stationary vehicles,
especially in situations when you are
driving over 80 km/h and a vehicle you
are following moves out of your driving
path and a stationary vehicle or object is
in front of you instead. Always pay
attention to the road ahead and stay
prepared to take immediate corrective
action. Depending on Traffic-Aware
Cruise Control to avoid a collision can
result in serious injury or death. In
addition, Traffic-Aware Cruise Control
may react to vehicles or objects that
either do not exist or are not in the lane
of travel, causing Model S to slow down
unnecessarily or inappropriately.
Warning: Traffic-Aware Cruise Control
may be unable to provide adequate
speed control because of limited braking
capability and hills. It can also misjudge
the distance from a vehicle ahead. Driving
downhill can increase driving speed,
causing Model S to exceed your set
speed. Never depend on Traffic-Aware
Cruise Control to slow down the vehicle
enough to prevent a collision. Always
keep your eyes on the road when driving
and be prepared to take corrective action
as needed. Depending on Traffic-Aware
Cruise Control to slow the vehicle down
enough to prevent a collision can result in
serious injury or death.
Warning: Traffic-Aware Cruise Control
may occasionally brake Model S when not
required or you are not expecting it. This
can be caused by closely following a
vehicle ahead, detecting vehicles or
objects in adjacent lanes (especially on
curves), etc.
Adjust your following distance
To adjust the distance you want to maintain
between Model S and a vehicle traveling
ahead of you, rotate the cruise control lever to
choose a setting from 1 (the closest following
distance) to 7 (the longest following distance).
Each setting corresponds to a time-based
distance that represents how long it takes for
Model S, from its current location, to reach the
location of the rear bumper of the vehicle
ahead.
Traffic-Aware Cruise Control
Driver Assistance 65
As you rotate the cruise control lever, the
instrument panel displays the current setting.
Release the lever when the desired setting is
displayed.
Cruising at the Speed Limit
Traffic-Aware Cruise Control makes it easy to
cruise at the speed limit. Once you've initially
set a cruising speed, you can adjust the speed
to cruise at the speed limit that is currently
being determined by Speed Assist (see Speed
Assist on page 84). To do so, pull the cruise
control lever toward you and hold
momentarily (about half a second). When you
release, your cruising speed is set to the speed
that is automatically or manually being
determined by Speed Assist, taking into
consideration any offset you have specified. If
you are already driving faster than the speed
limit when you pull and momentarily hold the
lever, the set speed does not adjust to the
speed limit—it adjusts to your current driving
speed.
Note: When you adjust the cruising speed
based on the speed limit, the set speed does
not change when the speed limit changes. You
must pull and hold the cruise control lever
again to cruise at the new speed limit. You can
also manually adjust your cruising speed at
any time (see Changing the Set Speed on
page 66).
Note: If Speed Assist is unable to determine a
speed limit, your set speed does not change
when you pull the cruise control lever toward
you and hold momentarily.
Warning: Do not rely on Speed Assist to
determine an accurate or appropriate
cruising speed. Always cruise at a safe
speed based on road conditions.
Changing the Set Speed
To change the set speed while using Traffic-
Aware Cruise Control, move the cruise control
lever up (increase) or down (decrease) until
your desired speed is reached.
To increase/decrease speed by 1 km/h, move
the lever up or down to the first position and
release. To increase/decrease speed to the
closest 5 km/h increment, move the lever up/
down to the second position and release. For
example, if you are traveling at 83 km/h and
you move the lever up to the second position
and release, the speed increases to 85 km/h.
You can also increase/decrease speed by
holding the lever in the full up/down position
and releasing when the desired speed displays
below the cruise control icon.
To cruise at the speed limit that is currently
being determined by Speed Assist (including
any offsets that you have set), pull the cruise
control lever toward you and hold
momentarily (about half a second). See Speed
Assist on page 84.
Note: It may take a few seconds for Model S to
reach the new cruising speed.
Note: The maximum set speed is 150 km/h.
Traffic-Aware Cruise Control
66 Model S Owner's Manual
Overtake Acceleration
When following a vehicle with Traffic-Aware
Cruise Control active, engaging the turn signal
to indicate a move into the passing lane briefly
accelerates Model S towards the vehicle
ahead. By momentarily holding the turn signal
lever up or down (depending on the region
you are driving in), you can quickly accelerate
up to your set speed without having to press
the accelerator pedal. The turn signal
accelerates Model S only when the following
conditions are met:
• Traffic-Aware Cruise Control is operating
and detecting a vehicle in front.
• No obstacles or vehicles are detected in
the target lane.
• Model S is traveling below the set speed,
but over 72 km/h.
• The turn signal indicates a move into the
passing lane.
Overtake Acceleration is intended as an aid
when passing a vehicle ahead of you. When
the turn signal is engaged, Traffic-Aware
Cruise Control continues to maintain distance
from the vehicle ahead, but allows you to drive
slightly closer than your selected distance.
Note: Model S uses its onboard GPS (Global
Positioning System) to determine if you are
driving in a region with right or left hand
traffic. This enables the appropriate turn signal
to provide overtake acceleration. When
driving in right hand traffic, only the left turn
signal indicates a move into the passing lane.
In left hand traffic, only the right turn signal
(moving the turn signal lever up) indicates
passing. In situations where GPS data is
unavailable (for example, inadequate signal),
the turn signal does not activate Overtake
Acceleration.
Acceleration cancels when:
• You reach your set cruising speed.
• Changing lanes takes too long.
• Model S gets too close to the vehicle
ahead.
OR
• You disengage the turn signal.
Note: Overtake Acceleration occurs when you
either fully engage the turn signal, or you hold
the turn signal in the momentary position
(partially engaged). When you release or
disengage the turn signal, Model S stops
accelerating (in the same way as when you
release the accelerator pedal) and resumes
the set speed.
Warning: Overtake Acceleration can
cancel for many unforeseen reasons in
addition to those listed above (for
example, lack of GPS data). Stay alert and
never depend on Overtake Acceleration
to increase your driving speed.
Warning: Overtake Acceleration increases
your driving speed whenever the
appropriate turn signal is engaged, and
accelerates Model S closer to the vehicle
ahead. Although Traffic-Aware Cruise
Control continues to maintain distance
from the vehicle ahead, it is important to
be aware that your selected following
distance is reduced when Overtake
Acceleration is active, particularly in cases
where it may not be your intention to
overtake the vehicle you are following.
Traffic-Aware Cruise Control
Driver Assistance 67
Canceling and Resuming
To manually cancel Traffic-Aware Cruise
Control, briefly push the cruise control lever
away from you or press the brake pedal. The
speedometer icon on the instrument panel
turns gray to indicate that cruise control is not
actively controlling your speed.
To resume cruising at the previously set
speed, briefly pull the cruise control lever
toward you.
Note: Depending on date of manufacture,
some Model S vehicles have a button on the
end of the cruise control lever. Pressing this
button when cruise control is active cancels
cruise control.
Note: When Traffic-Aware Cruise Control
cancels, Model S does not coast. Instead,
regenerative braking slows down Model S in
the same way as when you move your foot off
the accelerator when driving without cruise
control (see Regenerative Braking on page
52).
Warning: Traffic-Aware Cruise Control
cancels, or may not be available, in the
following situations:
• You press the brake pedal.
• Your driving speed drops below
8 km/h in situations when Model S
does not detect a vehicle ahead
within the specified distance.
• Your driving speed exceeds the
maximum cruising speed of 150 km/h.
• You shift Model S out of Drive.
• The driver's seat belt is unbuckled.
• A door is opened.
• The view from the radar sensor or
camera is obstructed. This could be
caused by dirt, mud, ice, snow, fog,
etc.
• The traction control setting is
manually disabled or is repeatedly
engaging to prevent wheels from
slipping.
• The wheels are spinning while at a
standstill.
• The cruise control system is failing.
• The cruise control system requires
service.
When Traffic-Aware Cruise Control is
unavailable or cancels, Model S no longer
drives consistently at a set speed and no
longer maintains a specified distance
from the vehicle ahead.
Warning: Traffic-Aware Cruise Control can
cancel unexpectedly at any time for
unforeseen reasons. Always watch the
road in front of you and stay prepared to
take appropriate action. It is the driver's
responsibility to be in control of Model S
at all times.
Summary of Cruise Indicators
Traffic-Aware Cruise Control is
available but is not actively
controlling your speed until you set
the cruising speed. Accelerate until
you reach a desired cruising speed,
then briefly tap the cruise control
lever up or down (or pull briefly
toward you).
Traffic-Aware Cruise Control is
operating and is either maintaining
the set speed (no vehicle in front) or
is maintaining a chosen following
distance from a vehicle in front (up
to the set speed).
Model S has fully stopped behind a
vehicle it was following but an object
is detected in front of Model S,
causing Traffic-Aware Cruise Control
to be in a HOLD state. Tap the
accelerator pedal to resume cruising
at the set speed.
Limitations
Traffic-Aware Cruise Control is particularly
unlikely to operate as intended in the
following types of situations:
Traffic-Aware Cruise Control
68 Model S Owner's Manual
• The road has sharp curves.
• Visibility is poor (due to heavy rain, snow,
fog, etc.).
• Bright light (oncoming headlights or
direct sunlight) is interfering with the
camera's view.
• The radar sensor is obstructed (dirty,
covered, etc.).
• The windshield area in the camera's field
of view is obstructed (fogged over, dirty,
covered by a sticker, etc.).
Traffic-Aware Cruise Control
Driver Assistance 69
Note: Autosteer is a BETA feature.
If Model S is equipped with Driver Assistance
components (see About Driver Assistance on
page 62), and you have purchased the
optional Autopilot Tech Package, you can use
Autosteer to manage steering and speed
under certain circumstances. Autosteer builds
upon Traffic-Aware Cruise Control, intelligently
keeping Model S in its driving lane when
cruising at a set speed. Using the forward
looking camera, the radar sensor, and the
ultrasonic sensors, Autosteer detects lane
markings and the presence of vehicles and
objects, assisting you in steering Model S
based on the lane markings and the vehicle
directly in front of you.
Warning: Autosteer is a hands-on feature.
You must keep your hands on the steering
wheel at all times.
Warning: Autosteer is intended for use
only on highways and limited-access
roads with a fully attentive driver. When
using Autosteer, hold the steering wheel
and be mindful of road conditions and
surrounding traffic. Do not use Autosteer
on city streets, in construction zones, or
in areas where bicyclists or pedestrians
may be present. Never depend on
Autosteer to determine an appropriate
driving path. Always be prepared to take
immediate action. Failure to follow these
instructions could cause serious property
damage, injury or death.
Operating Autosteer
Before you can operate Autosteer, you must
enable it by touching Controls > Settings >
Driver Assistance > Autosteer > Enable.
To indicate that Autosteer is available (but not
actively steering Model S), the instrument
panel displays a gray Autosteer icon on the
right side of the driving speed as shown here:
To initiate Autosteer, pull the cruise control
lever toward you twice in quick succession.
Autosteer briefly displays a message on the
instrument panel reminding you to pay
attention to the road and have your hands on
the steering wheel. To indicate that Autosteer
is now actively assisting in steering Model S,
the instrument panel displays the Autosteer
icon in blue. When Autosteer is able to detect
lane markings, it also displays the driving lane
in blue:
Note: To initiate Autosteer, you must be
driving at least 8 km/h on a roadway with
visible lane markings. If a vehicle is detected
ahead of you, you can initiate Autosteer at any
speed, even when stationary.
Note: In most cases, Autosteer attempts to
center Model S in the driving lane. However, if
the sensors detect the presence of an obstacle
(such as a vehicle or guard rail), Autosteer
may steer Model S in a driving path that is
offset from the center of the lane.
Note: In situations where you attempt to
engage Autosteer, but you are not driving
within the required driving speed for
Autosteer to operate, or Autosteer is not
receiving adequate data from the camera or
sensors, a message displays on the instrument
panel indicating that Autosteer is temporarily
unavailable.
Autosteer
70 Model S Owner's Manual
Restricted Speed
Autosteer is intended for use on freeways and
highways where access is limited by entry and
exit ramps. When using Autosteer on
residential roads, a road without a center
divider, or a road where access is not limited,
Autosteer limits the driving speed. The
maximum driving speed is calculated based
on the detected speed limit plus 10 km/h. In
situations where the speed limit cannot be
detected, speed is limited to 70 km/h. When
Autosteer is engaged in these situations, it
reduces your driving speed and your set
speed to be within these limits. You can
manually accelerate to exceed the limited
speed, but when you release the accelerator
pedal, Autosteer slows Model S to the limited
speed. When you leave the road, or disengage
Autosteer by using the steering wheel, you
can increase your set speed again, if desired.
Hold Steering Wheel
Autosteer uses data from the camera, sensors,
and GPS to determine how best to assist you
in steering Model S. When active, Autosteer
requires you to hold the steering wheel. If it
does not detect your hands on the steering
wheel for a period of time, a flashing white
light appears around the instrument panel and
the following message is displayed on the
instrument panel:
Autosteer detects your hands by recognizing
light resistance as the steering wheel turns or
from you manually turning the steering wheel
very lightly (i.e., without enough force to
retake control). When your hands are
detected, the message disappears and
Autosteer resumes normal operation.
Note: Autosteer may also sound a chime at
the same time that the message is initially
displayed.
Autosteer requires that you pay attention to
your surroundings and remain prepared to
take control at any time. If Autosteer still does
not detect your hands on the steering wheel,
the request escalates by sounding chimes that
increase in frequency.
If you repeatedly ignore hands-on prompts,
Autosteer displays the following message and
becomes disabled for the rest of the drive. If
you don't resume manual steering, Autosteer
sounds a continuous chime, turns on the
warning flashers, and slows the vehicle to a
complete stop.
For the rest of the drive, you must steer
manually. Autosteer is available again after
you shift the vehicle into Park.
Autosteer is Aborting
In situations where Autosteer is unable to
assist in steering Model S, Autosteer aborts,
sounds a warning chime, and displays the
following message on the instrument panel:
Canceling Autosteer
Autosteer cancels when:
• You apply rotational force to the steering
wheel (even a slight amount).
• You press the brake pedal.
• You push the cruise control lever away
from you.
• You unbuckle the driver's seat belt.
• The maximum speed that Autosteer
supports (150 km/h) is exceeded.
• You shift out of the Drive gear.
• An Automatic Emergency Braking event
occurs (see Collision Avoidance Assist on
page 81).
When Autosteer cancels, the Autosteer icon is
gray to indicate that Autosteer is no longer
active.
Note: If Autosteer cancels because you
applied rotational force to the steering wheel,
Traffic-Aware Cruise Control remains active.
Disengage Traffic-Aware Cruise Control as you
normally would, by pressing the brake or
briefly pushing the cruise control lever away
from you.
To disable Autosteer so it is no longer
available, touch Controls > Settings > Driver
Assistance > Autosteer > OFF.
Autosteer
Driver Assistance 71
Limitations
Autosteer is particularly unlikely to operate as
intended in the following situations:
• Autosteer is unable to accurately
determine lane markings due to poor
visibility (heavy rain, snow, fog, etc.), or an
obstructed, covered, or damaged camera
or sensor.
• When driving on hills.
• When approaching a toll booth.
• The road has sharp curves or is
excessively rough.
• Bright light (such as direct sunlight) is
interfering with the camera's view.
• The sensors are affected by other
electrical equipment or devices that
generate ultrasonic waves.
Warning: Many unforeseen circumstances
can impair the operation of Autosteer.
Always keep this in mind and remember
that as a result, Autosteer may not assist
in steering Model S appropriately. Always
drive attentively and be prepared to take
immediate action.
Autosteer
72 Model S Owner's Manual
If Model S is equipped with Driver Assistance
components (see About Driver Assistance on
page 62), and you have purchased the
optional Autopilot Tech Package, you can use
Auto Lane Change to move Model S into an
adjacent lane. When both Traffic-Aware Cruise
Control and Autosteer are active, Auto Lane
Change intelligently assists you in steering
Model S into an adjacent driving lane. Using
the forward looking camera, the radar sensor,
and the ultrasonic sensors, Autosteer detects
lane markings and the presence of other
vehicles.
Auto Lane Change is designed for use on
highways and main roads with visible lane
markings and under relatively predictable
circumstances in which minimal steering and
driver intervention is needed.
Warning: It is the driver's responsibility to
determine whether a lane change is safe
and appropriate. Auto Lane Change can
not detect oncoming traffic in the target
lane, especially fast moving vehicles from
the rear. Therefore, before initiating a lane
change, always check blind spots, lane
markings, and the surrounding roadway
to confirm it is safe and appropriate to
move into the target lane.
Warning: Never depend on Auto Lane
Change to determine an appropriate
driving path. Drive attentively by
watching the road and traffic ahead of
you, checking the surrounding area, and
monitoring the instrument panel for
warnings. Always be prepared to take
immediate action.
Warning: Do not use Auto Lane Change
on city streets or on roads where traffic
conditions are constantly changing and
where bicycles and pedestrians are
present.
Warning: The performance of Auto Lane
Change depends on the forward looking
camera's ability to recognize lane
markings.
Warning: Do not use Auto Lane Change
on winding roads with sharp curves, on
icy or slippery roads, or when weather
conditions (such as heavy rain, snow, fog,
etc.) may be obstructing the view from
the camera or sensors.
Operating Auto Lane Change
Before you can operate Auto Lane Change,
you must enable it by touching Controls >
Settings > Driver Assistance > Auto Lane
Change > On.
Note: Before you can turn on Auto Lane
Change, you must turn on Autosteer (see 
Autosteer on page 70). Without Autosteer,
Auto Lane Change can not operate.
Note: Your chosen setting is retained until you
manually change it. It is also saved in your
driver profile.
To change lanes using Auto Lane Change:
• Perform visual checks to make sure it is
safe and appropriate to move into the
target lane.
• Engage the turn signal and initiate the
lane change by having your hands on the
steering wheel.
Auto Lane Change assists in moving Model S
into the adjacent lane in the direction
indicated by the turn signal, provided the
following conditions are met:
• Auto Lane Change detected your hands
on the steering wheel.
• The Auto Lane Change setting is turned
on.
• The turn signal is engaged.
• Autosteer is actively steering Model S.
• The ultrasonic sensors detect no vehicle
or obstacles up to the center of the target
lane.
• The lane markings indicate that a lane
change is permitted.
• The camera's view is not obstructed.
• Lane Assist does not detect a vehicle in
the blind spot (see Lane Assist on page
79).
• Midway through the lane change, Auto
Lane Change can detect the outside lane
marking of the target lane.
• Driving speed is at least 45 km/h.
As the lane change is in progress, Overtake
Acceleration is activated, allowing Model S to
accelerate closer to a vehicle in front (see 
Overtake Acceleration on page 67). Midway
through the lane change, Auto Lane Change
must be able to detect the target lane's
outside lane marking. If this lane marking can
not be detected, both Auto Lane Change and
Autosteer will cancel.
Note: Auto Lane Change assists in moving the
vehicle one lane at a time. Moving into an
Auto Lane Change
Driver Assistance 73
additional lane requires you to engage the
turn signal a second time when the first lane
change is complete.
Warning: If Auto Lane Change cannot
detect the outside of the target lane
midway through the lane change, both
Auto Lane Change and Autosteer will
cancel. The instrument panel displays a
message instructing you to take over the
steering wheel immediately.
When Auto Lane Change is active, it is
important to monitor its performance by
watching the driving path in front of you and
the surrounding area. Stay prepared to take
over steering at any time. On the instrument
panel, the lane you are crossing over displays
as a dashed blue line and once in your new
lane, the lane markings display as solid blue
lines.
In situations where Auto Lane Change is
unable to operate at optimal performance, or
cannot operate due to inadequate data, the
instrument panel displays a series of warnings.
Therefore, when using Auto Lane Change,
always pay attention to the instrument panel
and be prepared to manually steer Model S.
Warning: When Auto Lane Change is
actively assisting in steering Model S, the
steering wheel moves accordingly.
Although you must have your hands on
the steering wheel, any significant
restriction of the steering wheel's
movement can cancel Auto Lane Change.
Canceling Auto Lane Change
Auto Lane Change cancels when you manually
move the steering wheel, press the brake
pedal, or disengage the turn indicator before
Model S crosses the markers on the existing
lane.
To disable Auto Lane Change so it is no longer
available, touch Controls > Settings > Driver
Assistance > Auto Lane Change > Off.
Limitations
Auto Lane Change is particularly unlikely to
operate as intended in the following types of
situations:
• Auto Lane Change is unable to accurately
determine lane markings. For example,
lane markings are excessively worn, have
been adjusted due to road construction,
are changing quickly (lanes branching off,
crossing over, or merging), objects or
landscape features are casting strong
shadows on the lane markings, or the road
surface contains pavement seams or other
high-contrast lines.
• A side collision warning is active (see Lane
Assist on page 79) when you engage the
turn signal.
• The road has sharp curves.
• Visibility is poor (due to heavy rain, snow,
fog, etc.) or weather conditions are
interfering with sensor operation.
• Bright light (oncoming headlights or
direct sunlight) is interfering with the
camera's view.
• A sensor or the camera is damaged or
obstructed (such as by mud, fog, ice, or
snow).
• The sensors are affected by other
electrical equipment or devices that
generate ultrasonic waves.
• Model S is being driven very close to a
vehicle in front of it, which is blocking the
camera's view.
Warning: Many unforeseen circumstances
can impair the operation of Auto Lane
Change. Always keep this in mind and
remember that as a result, Auto Lane
Change may not assist in steering
Model S appropriately. Always drive
attentively and stay prepared to
immediately take action at any time.
Auto Lane Change
74 Model S Owner's Manual
If Model S is equipped with Driver Assistance
components (see About Driver Assistance on
page 62), and you have purchased the
optional Autopilot Tech Package, Autopark
uses data from ultrasonic sensors and the
Global Positioning System (GPS) to:
• Simplify parking on public roads by
maneuvering Model S into parallel and
perpendicular parking spaces. See Parking
on Public Roads on page 75.
• Automatically park and retrieve Model S
from outside the vehicle on a private
residential property. See Using Summon
on page 77.
Warning: Summon is a BETA feature.
Please use this feature with caution,
staying prepared to take immediate
action at any time.
Warning: Autopark's performance
depends on the ability of the ultrasonic
sensors to determine the vehicle's
proximity to curbs, objects, and other
vehicles.
Parking on Public Roads
When driving, follow these steps to allow
Autopark to maneuver Model S into a parking
space:
1. When driving slowly on a public road,
monitor the instrument panel to
determine when Autopark has detected a
potential parking space. When Autopark
detects a parking space, the instrument
panel displays a parking icon. Autopark
detects parallel parking locations when
driving below 24 km/h and perpendicular
parking locations when driving below 16
km/h.
Note: The parking icon appears only if the
vehicle's position and/or the
circumstances of the surrounding area are
such that Autopark can determine an
appropriate driving path. If Autopark
cannot determine an appropriate path (for
example, when driving on a narrow street
where moving into the parking space
causes the front of the vehicle to extend
into the adjacent lane), you can either
reposition the vehicle, find a different
parking space, or park manually.
Note: If the Autopark icon does not
appear at potential parking spaces when
driving at the indicated speed, it is
possible that Autopark is calibrating.
Autopark requires a calibration process
when Model S is new, or when tires are
changed (see Calibration on page 76).
2. Check to determine if the detected
parking space is appropriate and safe. If
so, pull forward and stop approximately a
car length ahead of the parking space (as
you normally would when parallel parking
or when backing into a perpendicular
parking space).
3. Release the steering wheel, engage the
Reverse gear and touch Start Autopark on
the touchscreen.
4. When parking is complete, Autopark
displays the Complete message.
In situations where Autopark cannot operate
due to inadequate sensor data, the instrument
panels displays an alert message indicating
that you must manually park Model S.
Autopark
Driver Assistance 75
Note: If you press the brake when Autopark is
actively parking Model S, the parking process
pauses until you press the Resume button on
the touchscreen.
Note: Autopark detects potential
perpendicular parking spaces that are at least
2.9 meters wide with a vehicle parked on each
side. Autopark detects parallel parking spaces
that are at least six meters, but less than 15
meters long. Autopark does not operate on
angled parking spaces.
Warning: Never depend on Autopark to
find a parking space that is legal, suitable,
and safe. Autopark may not always detect
objects in the parking space. Always
perform visual checks to confirm that a
parking space is appropriate and safe.
Warning: When Autopark is actively
steering Model S, the steering wheel
moves in accordance with Autopark's
adjustments. Do not interfere with the
movement of the steering wheel. Doing
so cancels Autopark.
Warning: During the parking sequence,
continually check your surroundings. Be
prepared to apply the brakes to avoid
vehicles, pedestrians, or objects.
Warning: When Autopark is active,
monitor the touchscreen and instrument
panel to ensure that you are aware of the
instructions that Autopark is providing.
Calibration
During a parking sequence, Autopark must
maneuver Model S with a great deal of
precision. Therefore, before it can be used,
Autopark must complete a calibration process.
Calibration can take anywhere from 30
minutes to several days, depending on driving
behavior. When Autopark is calibrating, a note
displays on the Driver Assistance settings
screen indicating that calibration is in
progress. When calibration is complete, this
note no longer displays and Autopark is
available for use.
Note: Autopark repeats the calibration process
whenever tires are changed.
To Cancel Parking
Autopark cancels the parking sequence when
you manually move the steering wheel, or
when you change gears. Autopark also
cancels parking when:
• The parking sequence exceeds the
maximum of seven moves.
• The driver's seat belt is unbuckled.
• A door is opened.
• You press the accelerator pedal.
• You press the brake pedal twice in quick
succession.
• An Automatic Emergency Braking event
occurs (see Collision Avoidance Assist on
page 81).
To Pause Parking
To pause Autopark, press the brake pedal
once. Model S stops and remains stopped until
you press Resume on the touchscreen.
Limitations
Autopark is particularly unlikely to operate as
intended in the these situations:
• The road is sloped. Autopark is designed
to operate on flat roads only.
• Visibility is poor (due to heavy rain, snow,
fog, etc.).
• The curb is constructed of material other
than stone, or the curb cannot be
detected.
• One or more of the ultrasonic sensors is
damaged, dirty, or obstructed (such as by
mud, ice, or snow).
• Weather conditions (heavy rain, snow, fog,
or extremely hot or cold temperatures)
are interfering with sensor operation.
• The sensors are affected by other
electrical equipment or devices that
generate ultrasonic waves.
Warning: Many unforeseen circumstances
can impair Autopark's ability to park
Model S. Keep this in mind and remember
that as a result, Autopark may not steer
Model S appropriately. Pay attention
when parking Model S and stay prepared
to immediately take control.
Autopark
76 Model S Owner's Manual
Using Summon
Note: Summon is a BETA feature. Summon is designed and intended for use only on a private
residential property where the surrounding area is familiar and predictable. When using Summon,
you must continually monitor the vehicle. It is the driver's responsibility to use this feature safely,
responsibly, and as intended.
With Summon, you can move Model S in and out of a parking space from outside the vehicle using
the mobile app. Using data from the ultrasonic sensors, Summon maneuvers Model S forward or
reverse into a parking space. When parking is complete Summon shifts Model S into Park. Parking
is complete when:
• Model S detects an obstacle in its driving path (within a chosen distance);
• Summon has moved Model S the maximum distance of 12 meters;
OR
• In the case of reversing, Summon has reached a maximum Summon Distance.
To use Summon:
• FIRST TIME ONLY: Enable Summon and customize how it works (see Customizing Summon on
page 77).
• Position Model S for parking (see Position the Vehicle for Parking on page 78).
• Initiate the parking maneuver using the mobile app. Detailed instructions for each method are
provided below.
You can summon Model S back to its original position if you previously auto parked it and the
vehicle has remained in the Park gear. Then, using the mobile app simply specify the opposite
direction. Summon moves the vehicle along the original path provided the environment has not
changed (i.e. no obstructions have been introduced). If obstacles are detected, Summon attempts
to avoid the obstacles while staying as close as possible to its original path.
To cancel Summon and stop Model S at any time during a parking maneuver, press any button on
the key, use the mobile app, press a door handle, or (if sitting in the vehicle) interact with the
steering wheel, brake pedal, accelerator pedal, or gear stalk.
Note: If you want Summon to move multiple times in the same direction, up to the maximum of 12
meters, cancel Summon and then re-initiate the parking process, choosing the same direction.
Note: Summon can move Model S a short distance laterally to avoid an obstacle but in doing so,
does not return the vehicle to its driving path (i.e. Summon does not attempt to move Model S
around an obstacle).
Warning: Model S cannot detect obstacles that are lower than the fascia, very narrow (i.e.
bicycles), or hanging from a ceiling. In addition, many unforeseen circumstances can impair
Summon's ability to move in or out of a parking space and as a result, Summon may not
appropriately steer Model S. Therefore, you must continually monitor the vehicle's movement
and surroundings and remain prepared to stop Model S at any time. To cancel Summon and
stop Model S, press any button on the key, use the mobile app, press a door handle, or (if
sitting in the vehicle), interact with the steering wheel, brake pedal, accelerator pedal, or gear
stalk.
Customizing Summon
Before operating Summon, use the touchscreen to enable it. Touch Controls > Settings > Driver
Assistance > Summon > ON.
Then touch Customize to specify how Summon operates whenever it parks or retrieves your
vehicle:
• Bumper Clearance: Set the distance that you want Summon to stop from a detected object.
For example, you may want Summon to stop within just a few inches of the garage wall. This
distance applies only to objects detected directly in front of (when moving forward) or behind
(when reversing) Model S.
• Summon Distance: Specify the distance Model S travels when backing out of a parking space.
Autopark
Driver Assistance 77
• Side Clearance: Allow Model S to enter and exit very narrow parking spaces.
Warning: Parking in a narrow space limits the ability of the sensors to accurately detect
the location of obstacles, increasing the risk of damage to Model S and/or surrounding
objects.
Note: All settings associated with Summon are retained until you manually change them.
Position the Vehicle for Parking
Before operating Summon, align Model S laterally with the parking space so Model S can move
straight into the space in either Drive or Reverse. You must also position Model S within 12 meters
of the parking space (the maximum distance that Summon can move Model S).
If applicable, open your garage door.
Note: Use Summon on flat driveways only where a raised concrete edge does not exceed
approximately 2.5 cm.
Operating Summon with the Mobile App
On the mobile app, start Summon and hold down the forward or reverse button to move Model S
into the parking space.
Summon shifts Model S into Drive or Reverse (based on the direction you specified) and drives
into the parking space.
Note: If you release the direction button on the mobile app, Summon stops moving Model S.
Note: Summon requires that Model S can detect a valid key nearby.
Stopping or Canceling Summon
You can stop Model S at any time while Summon is active by pressing any button on the key or
using the mobile app. Summon also cancels when:
• A door handle is pressed or a door is opened.
• You interact with the steering wheel, brake pedal, accelerator pedal, or gear stalk.
• Model S detects an obstacle and cannot move forward for more than two seconds.
• Summon has moved Model S the maximum distance of approximately 12 meters.
Limitations
Summon is unlikely to operate as intended in the following types of situations:
• The road is sloped. Summon is designed to operate on flat roads only.
• Summon has detected a raised concrete edge when moving forward into the parking location.
Summon does not drive forward over an edge that is higher than approximately 2.5 cm.
• One or more of the ultrasonic sensors is damaged, dirty, or obstructed (such as by mud, ice,
or snow).
• Weather conditions (heavy rain, snow, fog, or extremely hot or cold temperatures) are
interfering with sensor operation.
• The sensors are affected by other electrical equipment or devices that generate ultrasonic
waves.
Warning: The list above does not represent an exhaustive list of situations that may interfere
with proper operation of Autopark's Summon feature. It is the driver's responsibility to remain
in control of Model S at all times. Pay close attention whenever Summon is actively moving
Model S and stay prepared to take immediate action.
Autopark
78 Model S Owner's Manual
If Model S is equipped with Driver Assistance
components (see About Driver Assistance on
page 62), the forward looking camera
monitors the markers on the lane you are
driving in, and the ultrasonic sensors monitor
the surrounding areas and the blind spot for
the presence of a vehicle or other objects.
When an object is detected in your blind spot
or close to the side of Model S (such as a
vehicle, guard rail, etc.), colored lines radiate
from the image of Model S on the instrument
panel. The location of the lines correspond to
the location of the detected object. The color
of the lines (white, yellow, orange, or red)
represents the object's proximity to Model S,
with white being the farthest and red being
very close and requiring your immediate
attention. These colored lines only display
when driving between approximately 16 km/h
and 140 km/h. When Autosteer is active, these
colored lines also display at low speeds, even
when Model S is stopped (for example, at an
intersection or in heavy traffic).
Lane Assist also warns you of undesired lane
departures by vibrating the steering wheel
slightly if a front wheel passes over a lane
marking and the associated turn signal is off.
This warning is active only when driving over
approximately 70 km/h. To turn this warning
on or off, touch Controls > Settings > Driver
Assistance > Lane Departure Warning. Your
chosen setting is retained until you manually
change it. It is also saved in your driver profile.
In addition to warnings described above, Lane
Assist may provide steering interventions if
Model S drifts into (or close to) an adjacent
lane in which an object, such as a vehicle, is
detected. In these situations, Model S
automatically steers to a safer position in its
driving lane. This steering is applied only when
Model S is traveling between 70 and 140 km/h
on major roadways with clearly visible lane
markings. When Lane Assist applies a steering
intervention, the instrument panel briefly
displays a warning message.
Warning: Steering interventions are
minimal and are not designed to move
Model S out of its driving lane. Do not rely
on steering interventions to avoid side
collisions.
Warning: Lane Assist features are for
guidance purposes only and are not
intended to replace your own direct visual
checks. Never depend on Lane Assist to
inform you of unintentionally driving
outside of the boundaries of the driving
lane or informing you that an object or
vehicle is in your blind spot or close to
the side of your vehicle. Several external
factors can reduce the performance of
Lane Assist. It is the driver's responsibility
to stay alert, pay attention to the driving
lane and always be aware of other road
users. Failure to do so can result in
serious injury or death.
Warning: Lane Assist is designed to
detect lane markings and may not detect
the edge of a road, especially if the road
has no curb. It is the driver's responsibility
to drive attentively and stay within the
boundaries of the driving lane.
Warning: Before changing lanes, always
visually check the lane you are moving
into by using side mirrors and performing
the appropriate shoulder checks. Several
factors can affect the performance of the
Lane Assist warnings, resulting in lack of,
or false warnings (see “Limitations and
Inaccuracies” below).
Limitations and Inaccuracies
Lane Assist can not always clearly detect lane
markings and you may experience
unnecessary or invalid warnings in these
situations:
Lane Assist
Driver Assistance 79
• Visibility is poor and lane markings are not
clearly visible (due to heavy rain, snow,
fog, etc.). The exact detection zone of the
ultrasonic sensors vary depending on
environmental conditions.
• Bright light (oncoming headlights or
direct sunlight) is interfering with the
camera's view.
• A vehicle in front of Model S is blocking
the camera's view.
• The windshield area in the camera's field
of view is obstructed (fogged over, dirty,
covered by a sticker, etc.).
• Lane markings are excessively worn, have
been adjusted due to road construction,
or are changing quickly (for example,
lanes branching off, crossing over, or
merging).
• The road is narrow or winding.
• Objects or landscape features are casting
strong shadows on lane markers.
Lane Assist may not provide warnings, or may
apply inappropriate warnings, in these
situations:
• One or more of the ultrasonic sensors is
damaged, dirty, or obstructed (such as by
mud, ice, or snow).
• Weather conditions (heavy rain, snow, fog,
or extremely hot or cold temperatures)
are interfering with sensor operation.
• The sensors are affected by other
electrical equipment or devices that
generate ultrasonic waves.
• An object that is mounted to Model S is
interfering with and/or obstructing a
sensor (such as a bike rack or a bumper
sticker).
In addition, Lane Assist may not steer Model S
away from an adjacent vehicle, or may apply
unnecessarily or inappropriate steering, if:
• You are driving Model S on sharp corners
or on a curve at a relatively high speed.
• Bright light (oncoming headlights or
direct sunlight) is interfering with the
camera's view.
• You are drifting into another lane but an
object (such as a vehicle) is not present.
• A vehicle in another lane cuts in front of
you or drifts into your driving lane.
• Model S is traveling less than 70 km/h or
over 140 km/h.
• One or more of the ultrasonic sensors is
damaged, dirty, or obstructed (such as by
mud, ice, or snow).
• Weather conditions (heavy rain, snow, fog,
or extremely hot or cold temperatures)
are interfering with sensor operation.
• The sensors are affected by other
electrical equipment or devices that
generate ultrasonic waves.
• An object mounted to Model S (such as a
bike rack or a bumper sticker) is
interfering with or obstructing a sensor.
• Visibility is poor and lane markings are not
clearly visible (due to heavy rain, snow,
fog, etc.).
• Lane markings are excessively worn, have
been adjusted due to road construction or
are changing quickly (for example, lanes
branching off, crossing over, or merging).
Warning: The lists above do not represent
every possible situation that may interfere
with Lane Assist warnings. Lane Assist
may not operate as intended for many
other reasons. To avoid a collision, stay
alert and always pay attention to the
roadway when driving Model S so you can
anticipate the need to take corrective
action as early as possible.
Caution: If a fault occurs with the Lane
Assist system, Model S displays an alert.
Contact Tesla Service.
Lane Assist
80 Model S Owner's Manual
If Model S is equipped with Driver Assistance
components (see About Driver Assistance on
page 62), the following collision avoidance
features are designed to increase the safety of
you and your passengers:
• Forward Collision Warning provides visual
and audible warnings in situations where
there is a high risk of a frontal collision
(see Forward Collision Warning on page
81).
• Automatic Emergency Braking
automatically applies braking to reduce
the impact of a frontal collision (see 
Automatic Emergency Braking on page
82).
Warning: Forward Collision Warning is for
guidance purposes only and is not a
substitute for attentive driving and sound
judgment. Keep your eyes on the road
when driving and never depend on
Forward Collision Warning to warn you of
a potential collision. Several factors can
reduce or impair performance, causing
either unnecessary, invalid, inaccurate, or
missed warnings. Depending on Forward
Collision Warning to warn you of a
potential collision can result in serious
injury or death.
Warning: Automatic Emergency Braking
is not designed to prevent a collision. At
best, it can minimize the impact of a
frontal collision by attempting to reduce
your driving speed. Depending on
Automatic Emergency Braking to avoid a
collision can result in serious injury or
death.
Forward Collision Warning
The forward looking camera and the radar
sensor monitor the area in front of Model S for
the presence of an object such as a vehicle,
bicycle or pedestrian. If a collision is
considered likely unless you take immediate
corrective action, Forward Collision Warning is
designed to sound a chime and highlight the
vehicle in front of you in red on the instrument
panel:
Warnings cancel automatically when the risk
of a collision has been reduced (for example,
you have decelerated or stopped Model S, or a
vehicle in front has moved out of your driving
path).
If immediate action is not taken when Model S
issues a Forward Collision Warning, a collision
is considered imminent and Automatic
Emergency Braking (if enabled) automatically
applies the brakes (see Automatic Emergency
Braking on page 82).
By default, Forward Collision Warning is
turned on. To turn it off or adjust its sensitivity,
touch Controls > Settings > Driver
Assistance > Forward Collision Warning.
Instead of the default warning level of
Medium, you can turn the warning Off, or you
can choose to be warned Late or Early.
Note: Your chosen setting for Forward
Collision Warning is retained until you
manually change it. It is also saved in your
driver profile.
Warning: The cameras and sensors
associated with Forward Collision
Warning are designed to monitor an
approximate area of up to 160 meters in
your driving path. The area being
monitored by Forward Collision Warning
can be adversely affected by road and
weather conditions. Use appropriate
caution when driving.
Warning: Forward Collision Warning is
designed only to provide visual and
audible alerts. It does not attempt to
apply the brakes or decelerate Model S.
When seeing and/or hearing a warning, it
is the driver's responsibility to take
corrective action immediately.
Warning: Forward Collision Warning may
provide a warning in situations where the
likelihood of collision may not exist. Stay
Collision Avoidance Assist
Driver Assistance 81
alert and always pay attention to the area
in front of Model S so you can anticipate
whether any action is required.
Warning: Forward Collision Warning does
not operate when Model S is traveling less
than 7 km/h.
Warning: Forward Collision Warning does
not provide a warning when the driver is
already applying the brake.
Automatic Emergency Braking
The forward looking camera and the radar
sensor are designed to determine the distance
from any object (vehicle, motorcycle, bicycle,
or pedestrian) traveling in front of Model S.
When a frontal collision is considered
unavoidable, Automatic Emergency Braking is
designed to apply the brakes to reduce the
severity of the impact, even if you are already
applying the brakes.
When Automatic Emergency Braking applies
the brakes, the instrument panel displays a
visual warning and you'll hear a chime. You
may also notice abrupt downward movement
of the brake pedal. The brake lights turn on to
alert other road users that you are slowing
down.
When Automatic Emergency Braking has
reduced the driving speed by 40 km/h, the
brakes are released. For example, if Automatic
Emergency Braking applies braking when
driving at 90 km/h, it releases the brakes
when the speed has been reduced to 50 km/h.
Automatic Emergency Braking operates only
when driving between 8 km/h and 140 km/h.
Automatic Emergency Braking does not apply
the brakes, or stops applying the brakes,
when:
• You turn the steering wheel sharply.
• You press the accelerator pedal.
• A vehicle, motorcycle, bicycle, or
pedestrian, is no longer detected ahead.
Automatic Emergency Braking is always
enabled when you start Model S. To disable it
for your current drive, touch Controls >
Settings > Driver Assistance > Automatic
Emergency Braking > Disable.
Warning: It is strongly recommended that
you do not disable Automatic Emergency
Braking. If you disable it, Model S does
not automatically apply the brakes in
situations where a collision is considered
likely.
Warning: Automatic Emergency Braking
is designed to reduce the severity of an
impact. It is not designed to avoid a
collision.
Warning: Several factors can affect the
performance of Automatic Emergency
Braking, causing either no braking or
inappropriate or untimely braking. It is the
driver’s responsibility to drive safely and
remain in control of the vehicle at all
times. Never depend on Automatic
Emergency Braking to avoid or reduce
the impact of a collision.
Warning: Automatic Emergency Braking
is designed to reduce the impact of
frontal collisions only and does not
function when Model S is in reverse.
Warning: Automatic Emergency Braking
is not a substitute for maintaining a safe
traveling distance between you and the
vehicle in front of you.
Warning: The brake pedal moves
downward abruptly during automatic
braking events. Always ensure that the
brake pedal can move freely. Do not place
material on top of the Tesla-supplied
driver’s floor mat (including an additional
mat) and always ensure that the driver’s
floor mat is properly secured. Failure to
do so can impede the ability of the brake
pedal to move freely.
Note: For advance notice of an Automatic
Emergency Braking event, turn on Forward
Collision Warning (see Forward Collision
Warning on page 81). When turned on, you
hear a chime and see a collision warning in the
center of the instrument panel if a collision is
considered likely. Then, if you do not take
immediate corrective action, a collision is
considered imminent and Automatic
Emergency Braking applies braking to reduce
driving speed. If enabled, Automatic
Emergency Braking applies braking when a
collision is considered inevitable, even if
Forward Collision Warning is turned off.
Collision Avoidance Assist
82 Model S Owner's Manual
Limitations and Inaccuracies
Collision Avoidance features cannot always
detect vehicles, bikes, or pedestrians, and you
may experience unnecessary, inaccurate,
invalid, or missed warnings for many reasons,
particularly if:
• The road has sharp curves.
• Visibility is poor (due to heavy rain, snow,
fog, etc.).
• Bright light (oncoming headlights or
direct sunlight) is interfering with the
camera's view.
• The radar sensor is obstructed (dirty,
covered, etc.).
• The windshield area in the camera's field
of view is obstructed (fogged over, dirty,
covered by a sticker, etc.).
Warning: The limitations described above
do not represent an exhaustive list of
situations that may interfere with proper
operation of Collision Avoidance Assist
features. These features may fail to
provide their intended function for many
other reasons. It is the driver’s
responsibility to avoid collisions by
staying alert and paying attention to the
area beside Model S so you can anticipate
the need to take corrective action as early
as possible.
Caution: If a fault occurs with a Collision
Avoidance Assist feature, Model S
displays an alert. Contact Tesla Service.
Collision Avoidance Assist
Driver Assistance 83
How Speed Assist Works
If Model S is equipped with Autopilot
components (see About Driver Assistance on
page 62), the forward looking camera detects
speed limit signs. The signs are then analyzed
and compared against GPS data to determine
the speed limit at your current driving
location. For routes where no signs are
present, speed limits are determined using
GPS data (if available). Instead of determining
the speed limit based on signs and GPS data,
you can also manually enter an arbitrary speed
limit.
When Speed Assist is turned on (described
below), the instrument panel displays a speed
limit sign. Warnings (described below) take
effect when you exceed this limit.
In situations where Speed Assist is unable to
detect a speed (for example, speed limit signs
and GPS data are not available at the current
location), or if Speed Assist is uncertain that
an acquired speed limit is accurate (for
example, although a speed limit sign was
initially detected, some time has passed
before a subsequent sign has been detected),
the instrument panel may not display a speed
limit sign and warnings do not take effect.
If you set the speed limit warning to Display
(see Controlling Speed Assist on page 84),
the speed limit sign on the instrumental panel
increases in size whenever you exceed the
speed limit.
If you set the speed limit warning to Chime
(see Controlling Speed Assist on page 84)
and exceed the speed limit, you also hear a
warning chime.
Note: Speed limit warnings go away after 10
seconds, or when Model S slows down below
the specified limit.
Warning: Do not rely on Speed Assist to
determine the appropriate speed limit.
Always drive at a safe speed based on
traffic and road conditions.
Controlling Speed Assist
To turn Speed Assist on or off, and control
how it works, touch Controls > Settings >
Driver Assistance > Speed Limit Warning, then
choose one of these options:
• Off. Speed limit warnings do not display
on the instrument panel.
• Display. Speed limit signs display on the
instrument panel and when you exceed
the limit, the sign gets larger.
• Chime. In addition to the visual display,
you'll hear a chime whenever you exceed
the speed limit.
You can also specify how the speed limit is
determined:
• Relative. The speed limit is determined
automatically based on detected traffic
signs and GPS data. If desired, you can set
a speed limit offset (+ or -) if you want to
be alerted only when you exceed the
speed limit by a specified amount. For
example, you would increase the offset to
+10 km/h if you only want to be alerted
when you exceed the speed limit by
10 km/h.
• Absolute. Manually specify any speed limit
between 30 and 240 km/h.
Note: GPS data is not always accurate. The
GPS can misjudge the road's location and
provide the speed limit for a directly adjacent
road that may have a different speed limit. For
example, the GPS can assume Model S is on a
freeway when it’s actually on a nearby surface
street, and vice versa.
Note: Your chosen setting is retained until you
manually change it. It is also saved in your
driver profile.
Speed Assist
84 Model S Owner's Manual
Limitations and Inaccuracies
Speed Assist may not be fully functional or
may provide inaccurate information in these
situations:
• Visibility is poor and speed limit signs are
not clearly visible (due to heavy rain,
snow, fog, etc.).
• Bright light (oncoming headlights or
direct sunlight) is interfering with the
camera's view.
• Model S is being driven very close to a
vehicle in front of it which is blocking the
camera's view.
• The windshield area in the camera's field
of view is obstructed (fogged over, dirty,
covered by a sticker, etc.).
• Speed limit signs are concealed by
objects.
• The speed limits stored in the GPS
database are incorrect or outdated.
• Model S is being driven in an area where
GPS data is not available.
• Traffic signs do not conform to standard
recognizable formats.
• A road or a speed limit has recently
changed.
Warning: The list above does not
represent an exhaustive list of situations
that may interfere with proper operation
of Speed Assist. Speed Assist may fail to
provide warnings for many other reasons.
Speed Assist
Driver Assistance 85
The Big Picture
The main components of the touchscreen are shown here. To manually control the brightness and
contrast, touch Controls > Displays. When set to Auto, the touchscreen changes between the Day
(light background) and Night (dark background) setting depending on ambient lighting
conditions.
Note: The following illustration is provided for demonstration purposes only. Depending on vehicle
options, software version and market region, your touchscreen may appear slightly different.
Touchscreen Overview
86 Model S Owner's Manual
Touchscreen Overview
Using the Touchscreen 87
1. Status bar
The top line displays provides shortcuts to lock/unlock Model S, to access Driver Profiles,
display vehicle information (the Tesla “T”), download software updates, display network
strength and Bluetooth
®
 status Wi-Fi settings, and to access the passenger airbag setting. If an
alert icon (exclamation mark) is displayed, touch it to see warning messages that are in effect.
Note: The airbag status symbol displays only when Model S is powered on.
Note: You can also display the time and outside temperature on the instrument panel by
choosing the Clock option using the left or right scroll wheel on the steering wheel (see 
Steering Wheel on page 34).
Note: Touch the lock icon to unlock/lock all doors. In situations where only the driver's door is
unlocked (for example, Door Unlock Mode is set to Driver), the lock icon displays as unlocked
and touching it locks all doors. For more information on Door Unlock Mode, see Doors on
page 4.
2. Apps
Touch an app to display it in the viewing area. Apps have default positions. Navigation and
Camera open in the top viewing area, whereas all other apps open in the bottom viewing area.
Instead of displaying the app in the default viewing area, you can specify where you want to
display the app by touching and holding the app's icon and dragging it onto the preferred
viewing area.
Media. See Media and Audio on page 103.
Maps and Navigation (if equipped). See Maps and Navigation on page 109.
Note: When displaying maps in the top (or entire) viewing area when a
driving gear is engaged, the status and app bars at the top disappear after a
few seconds to maximize the size of the map. Touch the map to redisplay
them.
Calendar. See Calendar on page 113.
Energy. See Getting Maximum Range on page 59.
Camera. Display the area behind Model S. This area also displays
automatically whenever you shift into Reverse. See Rear View Camera on
page 61.
Phone. See Phone on page 107.
Touchscreen Overview
88 Model S Owner's Manual
3. Main viewing area
The main viewing area changes depending on the app you have chosen. For some apps (such
as Nav), you can zoom in and out using standard touchscreen finger gestures.
4. Maximize/minimize app
Touch the small rectangle to expand the associated app to fill the entire main viewing area
(some apps are not expandable). Touch again to display two apps in half-screen view.
5. Volume control
Touch the up and down arrows to increase or decrease the volume of the speakers. You can
also adjust the volume using the scroll wheel on the left side of the steering wheel.
6. Climate controls (see Climate Controls on page 97).
7. Controls
Touch to access all Model S controls and settings (doors, locks, lights, etc).
8. Reverse the position of the two currently displayed apps.
Warning: Paying attention to road and traffic conditions must always be the driver's highest
priority. To ensure the safety of vehicle occupants as well as other road users, using the
touchscreen should be done only when road and traffic conditions permit.
Touchscreen Overview
Using the Touchscreen 89
Controlling Features
Touch Controls on the bottom corner of the touchscreen to control and customize all main
features of Model S.
Note: The following illustration is provided for demonstration purposes only. Depending on vehicle
options, software version and market region, the options available on the Controls screen may be
different.
Controls
90 Model S Owner's Manual
1. Close
Touch the circled X in the top left corner of a window to close it (or you can touch anywhere
outside the window).
2. Sunroof
If Model S is equipped with a sunroof, touch to adjust its position (see Sunroof on page 15).
3. Suspension
If Model S is equipped with Smart Air Suspension, touch to manually raise or lower Model S, or
to remove a previously saved auto-raising location (see Smart Air Suspension on page 101).
Model S must be powered on and you must press the brake pedal before you can change
suspension settings. Smart Air Suspension causes Model S to self-level, even when powered
off. Therefore, when towing or lifting, you must disable self-leveling (see Instructions for
Transporters on page 161 and Jacking and Lifting on page 147).
4. Driving
• Steering mode
Adjust the amount of effort required to turn the steering wheel. Sport feels more
responsive whereas Comfort feels easier to drive and park (see Steering Wheel on page
34).
• Acceleration (Performance dual-motor vehicles only)
Choose an acceleration level. Sport is the standard level of acceleration and allows you to
maximize driving range. Choose Insane or Ludicrous (depending on the options available
on your vehicle) to increase peak torque by approximately 60 percent.
If you choose Insane or Ludicrous, additional power is available immediately. However, to
achieve the absolute maximum power (designed for short term use), touch Max Battery
Power, which displays as blue text immediately below the acceleration setting. Max
Battery Power heats the Battery to its ideal operating temperature to ensure access to
100% of available power. Heating the Battery can take over an hour, depending on
environmental conditions and whether or not Model S is being driven. During this time, a
message displays providing you with an approximate wait time. When the additional
power is available, the message indicates that Max Battery Power is READY! When using
Max Battery Power, Model S consumes more energy as it keeps the Battery within an
optimal temperature range. To cancel Max Battery Power at any time, change the
acceleration level to Sport (or touch the button in the Max Battery Mode popup). To
prevent excess and potentially unnecessary energy consumption (for example, you leave
the vehicle and forget to cancel Max Battery Power), Max Battery Power cancels
automatically in three hours, regardless of whether you are still driving or have left the
vehicle.
Note: To support Max Battery Power, the charge level must be 20% or higher. You cannot
initiate Max Battery Power if the charge level is less than 20%. In addition, Max Battery
Power immediately cancels if at any time during its use, the charge level drops below
20%.
Note: Max Battery Power strives to keep the pack within an optimal temperature range. In
addition to heating the Battery, Max Battery Power also cools the battery when necessary
(for example, during aggressive driving scenarios).
Note: Max Battery Power is designed to achieve maximum performance for short term
acceleration and is not intended for daily driving. The tradeoff for the additional power
boost is extra energy consumption and earlier power fade on long aggressive drives. The
Insane or Ludicrous acceleration settings provide a significant increase in performance
even without Max Battery Power. In fact, in normal driving situations, the additional power
that can be achieved using Max Battery Power may not be noticeable.
Note: The Insane or Ludicrous acceleration setting is available only on newer Performance
dual-motor vehicles, depending on date of manufacture and options chosen at time of
purchase.
Controls
Using the Touchscreen 91
• Creep
When on, Model S slowly moves forward when in Drive and backward in Reverse when
you release the brake (similar to a conventional vehicle with an automatic transmission).
You can adjust this setting only when Model S is in Park.
• Traction Control
To allow the wheels to spin on a standard single motor Model S, you can turn off traction
control. On a dual-motor Model S, you can enable Slip Start. If you turn off Traction
Control (or enable Slip Start), a warning message displays on the instrument panel.
Traction control turns off for the current drive only. On dual-motor vehicles, traction
control is automatically turned on again when the speed exceeds 64 km/h. See Traction
Control on page 53.
• Regenerative braking
When you release the accelerator when driving, regenerative braking slows Model S and
feeds any surplus energy back to the Battery. If set to Low, Model S does not slow down
as quickly, but you may experience less range (see Regenerative Braking on page 52).
Note: Regardless of the setting, the energy gained by regenerative braking is reduced if
the Battery is full, or if it is extremely cold or hot (the surplus energy is used to heat or
cool the Battery).
• Range Mode
If on, Model S conserves energy by limiting the power of the climate control system. Cabin
heating and cooling may be less effective, but seat heaters can be used to provide
warmth in colder climates. When turned on in a dual-motor vehicle, torque distribution
between the motors is optimized to maximize range.
5. Cold Weather
If Model S is equipped with the optional cold weather package, you can control all seat
heaters as well as the heated wipers and steering wheel. Heaters that are turned on are
displayed in red. To turn off all seat heaters, touch All Off. Note that you can also control the
front driver and passenger seats using the main climate control panel located on the bottom
of the touchscreen (see Climate Controls on page 97).
6. Trips
View and reset the trip meters that summarize how far you have driven (see Trip Information
on page 58).
7. Displays
Manually control the brightness and the Day (light background) or Night (dark background)
setting of the touchscreen and instrument panel. When set to Auto, the brightness changes
automatically between day and night brightness based on ambient lighting conditions. When
Auto-adjust is checked, the displays are further adjusted based on both the surroundings and
by learning your preferences (i.e. it remembers the type of manual adjustments you make).
To disable the touchscreen momentarily for cleaning purposes, touch Clean Mode.
You can also put Model S into an energy saving mode so it consumes less energy when not in
use (see Getting Maximum Range on page 59).
Note: The Displays settings can also be accessed from the Settings screen.
8. E-Brake & Power Off
You can manually:
• Apply and release the parking brake (see Parking Brake on page 52).
• Power off (see Powering Off on page 38).
9. Doors & Locks (see Doors on page 4)
10. Lights (see Lights on page 45)
Warning: Do not read the touchscreen while driving. Doing so increases the likelihood of a
collision. Everything you need to know when driving is displayed on the instrument panel.
Controls
92 Model S Owner's Manual
Customizing Your Vehicle
Touch the Settings tab on the Controls window to adjust Model S to suit your preferences.
Note: The following illustration is provided for demonstration purposes only. Depending on vehicle
options, software version, and market region, the options available on the Settings screen may be
different. For example, in many regions, the “Language & Units” tab is called “Units & Format.”
Settings
Using the Touchscreen 93
1. Adjust settings associated with installed apps (applications). Settings associated with apps
that are either unavailable on your Model S, or have no settings that you can adjust at this
time, are grayed out.
2. Manage driver profiles (see Driver Profiles on page 32).
3. Units & Format
Adjust how Model S displays:
• Distance: Miles or km can be shown on the range display, speedometer, energy chart, trip
meters, Google map searches and navigation routes.
• Time Format: 12 or 24 hour.
• Temperature: oC or oF.
• Energy & Charging: Display remaining energy and charging units as either a percentage of
battery energy remaining, or as an estimate of the distance that you can drive. When you
choose Distance, you can display mileage based on either:
• Rated - based on ECE R101 testing.
• Typical - based on US EPA testing.
Note: When anticipating when you need to charge, use range estimates as a general
guideline only.
4. Vehicle
Note: Depending on date of manufacture and options chosen at time of purchase, some
vehicles are not equipped with all features listed below.
• Door Unlock Mode: Choose whether you want ALL doors, or just the DRIVER door, to
unlock when you approach Model S carrying your key.
• Child-Protection Lock: If on, safety locks prevent the rear doors and the liftgate from
being opened from inside Model S.
• Walk-away Door Lock: If on, doors automatically lock when you walk away from Model S,
carrying the key with you (see Walk-away Locking on page 7).
• Auto-Present Handles: If on, door handles extend automatically whenever you approach
Model S carrying a key, whether locked or unlocked (see Doors on page 4). Note that to
preserve battery life, Model S is designed to temporarily disable the Auto-Present Handles
feature when the key has been out of range for more than 48 hours, or if the key remains
within range for five minutes after all doors have been closed.
• Unlock on Park: If on, doors automatically unlock when you engage the Park gear.
• Headlights After Exit: If on, headlights stay on for two minutes after you exit, or until you
lock Model S (see Headlights After Exit on page 48).
• Adaptive Headlights: If on, the Adaptive Front Lighting System (AFS) automatically
adjusts the beam of the headlights to improve your driving view (see Adaptive Front
Lighting System (AFS) on page 48).
• Mirror Auto-Tilt: If on, exterior mirrors tilt downward when reversing (see Mirrors on page
37).
• Mirror Auto-Fold: If on, exterior mirrors fold when you lock Model S with the key or walk-
away locking. They extend automatically when you return to Model S. You can also fold
the mirrors manually by touching the center mirror control button (see Mirrors on page
37).
• Smart Preconditioning: If on, Model S predicts your driving schedule and automatically
adjusts the temperature of the cabin based on your last set temperature and your driving
schedule, making Model S comfortable and ready to drive. It may take some time for
Model S to learn your driving habits and if you do not have a regular driving schedule, it
will be unable to identify a pattern.
Note: To conserve energy in situations where Model S has a low charge level, smart
preconditioning may not occur.
Note: Smart Preconditioning is available only if you save your home and work locations
(see Favorite, Home, and Work Destinations on page 111).
Settings
94 Model S Owner's Manual
• Cabin Overheat Protection: If on, the air conditioning system can reduce cabin
temperatures in extremely hot ambient conditions for a period of up to twelve hours after
exiting Model S (see Cabin Overheat Protection on page 100).
Warning: Never leave children or pets in the vehicle unattended. Due to automatic
shut-off or extreme outside conditions, the inside of the vehicle can become
dangerously hot even with Cabin Overheat Protection enabled.
Note: Cabin Overheat Protection does not operate when the energy remaining in the
Battery is 20% or less.
5. Safety & Security
Turn various safety and security features on and off:
• Passenger Front Airbag (see Disabling the Passenger Front Airbags on page 30).
• Active safety devices Model S is equipped with, such as Park Assist Chimes (see Park
Assist on page 54).
• Alarm, and security options Model S is equipped with (see Security Settings on page
115).
• Remote access by Tesla’s mobile applications (see Mobile App on page 118).
6. Displays
Manually control the brightness and the Day (light background) or Night (dark background)
setting of the touchscreen and instrument panel. When set to Auto, the brightness changes
automatically between day and night brightness based on ambient lighting conditions. When
Auto-adjust is checked, the displays are further adjusted based on both the surroundings and
by learning your preferences (i.e. it remembers the type of manual adjustments you make).
To disable the touchscreen momentarily for cleaning purposes, touch Clean Mode.
You can also put Model S into an energy saving mode so it consumes less energy when not in
use (see Getting Maximum Range on page 59).
Note: The Displays settings can also be accessed from the Controls screen.
7. Driver Assistance
If Model S is equipped with Driver Assistance components, you can control the features that
provide a safer and more convenient driving experience (see About Driver Assistance on page
62).
8. Service & Reset
Turn various service-related features on and off:
• Service Mode: If on, moves wiper blades to the service position to make them easier to
access when replacing them. Model S must be in Park (see Wipers and Washers on page
50).
• Tire Pressure Monitor: Touch Reset Sensors to reset the TPMS sensors after replacing a
wheel (see Resetting the TPMS Sensors on page 133).
• Tow Mode: Activate Tow Mode to keep Model S in Neutral (see Keeping Your Vehicle in
Neutral (Tow Mode) on page 39).
• Factory Reset: Touch Erase & Reset to erase all personal data (saved addresses, music
favorites, etc.) and restore all customized settings to their factory defaults.
9. Manual
Display this owner's manual.
Warning: Do not read the touchscreen while driving. Doing so increases the likelihood of a
collision.
Naming Your Vehicle
To further personalize your Model S, you can name it. The name you give your Model S will appear
in the mobile app. To name your Model S, touch the Tesla “T” at the top center of the touchscreen,
then touch Name Your Vehicle.
Settings
Using the Touchscreen 95
When you save, Name Your Vehicle is replaced by the name you provided. You can touch the
name at any time to rename your Model S.
Erasing Personal Data
You can erase all personal data (saved addresses, music favorites, imported contacts, etc.) and
restore all customized settings to their factory defaults. This is useful when transferring ownership
of Model S. Touch Controls > Settings > Service & Reset > Factory Reset > Erase & Reset. Before
erasing, Model S verifies your credentials by prompting you to enter the user name and password
associated with your MY TESLA account.
Settings
96 Model S Owner's Manual
Overview of Climate Controls
The climate controls are always available at the bottom of the touchscreen. By default, climate
control is set to Auto, which maintains optimum comfort in all but the most severe weather
conditions. When you adjust the temperature, the system automatically adjusts the heating, air
conditioning, air distribution, air circulation, and fan speed to maintain your selected temperature.
To override these settings, touch Auto (see Customizing Climate Control on page 98).
The fan, heating, and air conditioning systems are powered by the Battery. Therefore, prolonged
use decreases driving range.
Note: The following illustration is provided for demonstration purposes only. Depending on vehicle
options, software version, market region, and settings, the information displayed may be slightly
different.
1. The front seats are equipped with heating pads that operate at three levels from 3 (highest) to
1 (lowest).
When operating, the indicator turns red and displays the setting number.
Note: If Model S is equipped with the optional cold weather package, you can also control
seat heaters in the rear seats, heated wipers, and heated steering wheel by touching
Controls > Cold Weather (see Controls on page 90). When equipped with the optional
executive rear seats, you can control the seat and the backrest separately in each second row
passenger seat.
2. Touch the up or down arrow to set the cabin temperature. To apply a temperature setting to
both the driver and passenger side at the same time, touch SYNC TEMP on the temperature
popup that appears when you touch an arrow.
3. Automatic/Manual climate control (see Customizing Climate Control on page 98).
4. The windshield defroster distributes air flow to the windshield. Touch once to turn on, touch a
second time to operate the heating and fan at their maximum level, and touch a third time to
turn off and restore the air distribution, heating, and fan to their previous settings.
5. Turn climate control system on/off.
6. The rear window defroster warms up the rear window for 15 minutes, then automatically shuts
off. Exterior side mirrors are also heated.
Note: Depending on date of manufacture and options selected at time of purchase, some
vehicles are not equipped with a heaters in the exterior side mirrors.
Warning: To avoid burns resulting from prolonged use, individuals who have peripheral
neuropathy, or whose capacity to feel pain is limited because of diabetes, age, neurological
injury, or some other condition, should exercise caution when using the climate control
system and seat heaters.
Climate Controls
Using the Touchscreen 97
Customizing Climate Control
The climate control system is designed to automatically provide optimum comfort in most
situations. All you need to do is set the desired temperature, and the air conditioning, air
recirculation, air distribution, and fan speed automatically maintain your selected temperature.
To override the automatic setting, touch AUTO to customize individual settings. Then touch the
setting you want to change. When you change a setting, the AUTO icon turns from blue to gray
and RESET AUTO displays instead. Touch RESET AUTO to change all settings on the panel back to
their defaults. Or, you can touch AUTO associated with any individual setting to change it back to
its default.
1. Touch RESET AUTO to change all settings back to their default values.
2. Touch A/C ON or A/C OFF to turn the air conditioning on and off, respectively. Turning it off
reduces cooling, but saves energy.
Because Model S runs much quieter than a gasoline-powered vehicle, you may notice the
sound of the compressor as it is operating. To minimize noise, reduce the fan speed.
Climate Controls
98 Model S Owner's Manual
3. Choose how air is drawn into Model S:
Outside air is drawn into Model S (see Ventilation on page 100).
Although less efficient than recirculating the air in very hot or low climate
conditions, this setting draws more air into the rear seating areas, and is
recommended when occupants are seated in the Tesla built-in rear facing
child seats.
Air inside Model S is recirculated. This prevents outside air (traffic fumes)
from entering, but reduces dehumidifying performance. Recirculating the
air is the most efficient way to cool the front cabin area. To prevent the
windshield from fogging in some conditions, briefly change the setting
every hour to draw in outside air.
If your Model S is equipped with the HEPA (High Efficiency Particulate
Air) filter, you can ensure the best possible quality of air inside the cabin.
When selected, outside air is drawn in and filtered through the medical-
grade HEPA filter in addition to the secondary filtration systems. The
HEPA filter is extremely effective at removing particles, including
pollution, allergens, bacteria, pollen, mold spores, and viruses. Both the
HEPA filter and the secondary filtration system also contain activated
carbon to remove a broad spectrum of odors and gases. When you
engage the HEPA option, the fan operates at the highest speed. In
addition, the positive pressure inside the cabin minimizes the amount of
outside air that can leak into the vehicle.
Note: Some gases, such as carbon monoxide, are not effectively removed
by activated carbon.
4. Choose where air flows into the cabin. You can choose more than one location:
Foot-level vents
Face-level vents
Windshield vents
Note: When air is directed to the foot-level vents, approximately one third of the air continues
to flow to the windshield vents to assist in defogging. However, when air is directed to the
face-level vents, no air flows to the windshield because the air flowing through the face-level
vents may be adequate to assist in defogging the windshield.
5. Touch the arrows to set the speed of the fan.
Note: Adjusting the fan speed may change the selected setting for how air is drawn into
Model S in order to increase or reduce airflow.
Climate Controls
Using the Touchscreen 99
Ventilation
Outside air is drawn into Model S through the
grill in front of the windshield. Keep the grill
clear of obstructions such as leaves and snow.
To direct the flow of air inside Model S, move
the interior vents up, down, or from side to
side.
Note: You can direct the outer face level vents
toward the side windows to help defrost or
defog them.
Cabin Air Filter
Model S has an air filter that prevents pollen,
industrial fallout, road dust and other particles
from entering through the vents. Tesla
replaces the air filter at the regularly
scheduled maintenance intervals of every
12 months, or every 20,000 km.
Cabin Overheat Protection
The climate control system can reduce cabin
temperatures in extremely hot ambient
conditions for a period of up to twelve hours
after you exit Model S. When enabled, air
conditioning turns on when cabin
temperatures exceed 40° C. To disable this
feature, touch Controls > Settings > Vehicle >
Cabin Overheat Protection > OFF.
Warning: Never leave children or pets in
the vehicle unattended. Due to automatic
shut-off or extreme outside conditions,
the inside of the vehicle can become
dangerously hot even with Cabin
Overheat Protection enabled.
Note: Cabin Overheat Protection does not
operate, or stops operating, when the energy
remaining in the Battery is 20% or less.
Climate Control Operating Tips
• When you use the mobile app to turn on
the climate control system, it
automatically turns off after 30 minutes.
To cool or heat the cabin for a longer
period, you must turn it on again.
• To conserve energy, you can limit the
power of the climate control system by
turning on Range Mode. Cabin heating
and cooling may be less effective, but seat
heaters can be used to provide warmth in
colder climates. Touch Controls >
Driving > Range Mode.
• If the climate control system operates
more loudly than you prefer, reduce the
fan speed or adjust the air flow to draw in
outside air (instead of recirculating).
• In addition to cooling the interior, the air
conditioning system also cools the
Battery. Therefore, in hot weather, the air
conditioning system can turn on even if
you turned it off. This is normal because
the system’s priority is to cool the Battery
to ensure it stays within an optimum
temperature range to support long life
and optimum performance.
• To ensure the climate control system
operates efficiently, close all windows and
ensure that the exterior grill in front of the
windshield is free of ice, snow, leaves, and
other debris.
• In very humid conditions, it is normal for
the windshield to fog slightly when you
first turn on the air conditioning.
• It is normal for a small pool of water to
form under Model S when parked. Extra
water produced by the dehumidifying
process is drained underneath.
• To reduce the temperature in the cabin in
hot weather conditions, the fan may turn
on to vent the cabin when the vehicle is
parked. (This occurs only if the battery's
charge level is above 20%.)
Climate Controls
100 Model S Owner's Manual
Note: If Model S is equipped with Smart Air
Suspension, you may hear the sound of the
compressor when Model S starts, as the
system’s reservoir fills with air.
Smart Air Suspension has both manual and
automatic modes of operation.
Manual Height Adjustments
Caution: Before adjusting the suspension
height, ensure Model S is clear of all
obstacles, above and below.
Manually raising the height of Model S is useful
when you need extra ground clearance, such
as steep driveways or ramps, deep snow,
speed bumps, etc.
With Model S powered on, or the brake pedal
pressed, use the touchscreen to manually
change the ride height. Touch Controls >
Suspension, then choose from:
• Very High. When set to Very High, the
suspension automatically lowers to High
when driving speed reaches 35 km/h.
• High. When set to High, the suspension
automatically lowers to Standard when
driving speed reaches 55 km/h.
• Standard. The Standard setting ensures
optimum comfort and handling under all
loading conditions.
• Low. Lowering the height can make it
easier to load or unload cargo and
passengers.
Note: Available settings depend on your
driving speed and other conditions. For
example, the suspension does not lower if a
door is open.
Location-Based Suspension
Location-Based suspension saves you from
manually having to raise the suspension every
time you arrive at a frequently-used location
where a higher suspension is needed (steep
driveways or ramps, deep snow, speed bumps,
etc.).
Whenever you raise the suspension to High or
Very High, Model S saves the location.
When you return to the saved location,
Model S raises the suspension and the
instrument panel displays this message:
Note:
• To raise the suspension to High, you must
be driving slower than 55 km/h. To raise it
to Very High, you must be driving slower
than 35 km/h. If you are driving faster
than these speeds when returning to a
saved location, the suspension does not
raise until Model S slows down.
• After leaving a saved location, the
suspension may not lower based on an
automatic lowering speed that you have
set (Controls > Suspension > Automatic
Lowering) until you are driving faster than
the auto-raising speed thresholds
described above.
• If Model S reaches a saved location and
the existing suspension setting is higher
than the level that has been saved for that
location, the suspension is not adjusted.
To remove an auto-raising location
If you do not want the suspension to auto-
raise at a saved location, touch the X in the
auto-raising location status message that
displays at a saved location. Doing so removes
the auto-raise location and the suspension no
longer raises automatically when you arrive at
the location.
Smart Air Suspension
Using the Touchscreen 101
Note: Manually lowering the suspension to
Standard or Low while at a saved location also
removes the auto-raising location.
Automatic Lowering
When Model S is moving above typical
driveway or parking lot speeds, Smart Air
Suspension automatically lowers ride height to
improve aerodynamics and handling. For most
average speed driving, the suspension is
automatically set to Standard. As described
above, when you make manual height
adjustments, the suspension automatically
lowers at increased driving speeds.
When carrying loads, Smart Air Suspension
also maintains a level height between the front
and rear.
You can adjust the speed at which the Air
Suspension automatically transitions to the
LOW ride height by touching Controls >
Suspension > Automatic Lowering on the
touchscreen. This setting is saved to your
Driver Profile.
Note: You can temporarily override the ride
height by pressing the brake pedal, touching
an air suspension control in Controls >
Suspension, and then manually choosing a
ride height. Your suspension's automatic
lowering setting is restored the next time you
drive.
If a fault is detected with the air
suspension system, a yellow
indicator lights up on the instrument
panel. If the problem persists,
contact Tesla.
Jack Mode
Before jacking or lifting, set the suspension to
Jack mode to prevent the self-leveling that
occurs even when Model S is powered off.
Press the brake pedal, then touch Controls >
Suspension > Jack.
When Model S is in Jack mode, a red
air suspension indicator lights up on
the instrument panel.
To deactivate, touch Jack again.
Note: Jack mode automatically cancels when
you drive over 7 km/h.
Smart Air Suspension
102 Model S Owner's Manual
Overview
Touch the Media Player application to listen to
the radio, stream music or podcasts, or play
audio files from your phone or an attached
USB device. You can also play Internet radio
(such as TuneIn), Spotify, and audio files from
a Bluetooth-connected device or a USB-
connected flash drive.
Available source content displays across the
top of Media Player: Radio, Spotify, TuneIn,
and Phone. An additional source, USB,
displays when you insert a flash drive into a
USB connection (see USB Connections on
page 106). You can browse the content
available on Media Player by touching a
source, or you can use Search to find specific
content (see Searching within Media Player on
page 103).
The Now Playing view, which displays at the
bottom of Media Player, enables you to control
what's currently playing (for example,
pausing/playing, skipping to the next track/
station, etc.). You can also use the Now
Playing view to mark what's playing as a
favorite (see Favorites and Recent on page
105), and access recently played and favorite
stations, music, and podcasts.
The Now Playing view displays regardless of
the source (Radio, Spotify, TuneIn, Phone, and
USB) you select in Media Player. You can
maximize and minimize the Now Playing view
simply by touching it.
Volume Control
To adjust Media Player's volume, roll the scroll
wheel on the left side of the steering wheel up
or down. To mute the volume, tap the scroll
wheel.
The scroll wheel adjusts the volume for media,
navigation instructions, or phone calls, based
on what is currently being heard through the
speakers. If you're listening to a song, audio
file, or podcast, and you receive a phone call
or Model S relays a step in Trip Planner's turn-
by-turn directions through the speakers, the
song, audio file, or podcast is muted
temporarily.
Note: Muting the volume during a phone call
also mutes the microphone.
Sound Settings
Achieve the sound you want with controls for
adjusting fade, balance, and tone all in one
view. Press the audio settings icon on the top
right corner of Media Player. Adjust the bass,
mid-range, and treble settings by dragging the
existing setting up or down along the setting
bars. Adjust the balance by positioning the
center circle of the cross bars to the location
in the vehicle where you want to focus the
sound.
If you purchased the Ultra High Fidelity Sound
Audio Package, touch the Dolby check box to
enable Dolby Surround for an enhanced
listening experience.
Searching within Media Player
Search is available throughout Media Player.
You can search across all content categories,
or you can limit your search to a particular
category. Search results include the following
content:
• TuneIn
• Spotify
• USB content
To search, touch anywhere in Media Player's
search bar and enter the name of the song,
album, artist, podcast, playlist, or station you
want to search for. Select a filter to narrow the
scope of your search, or leave it at its default
setting to include top results from all
categories.
Note: You can also search hands-free using
voice commands (see Using Voice Commands
on page 35).
If you are using TuneIn, you can browse
content by category from the Browse area of
the TuneIn source. You can browse content by
location (Africa, Asia, North America, and so
on), by local radio, by talk radio, by favorites,
and other categories. To return from browsing
or to select another category to browse,
simply touch TuneIn at the top of Media
Player.
Media and Audio
Using the Touchscreen 103
AM and FM Radio
Media Player provides both AM and FM radio
service that you can select from the Radio
source. To tune the radio to a specific
frequency, choose a frequency and then touch
the next or previous arrows to move from one
frequency to the next (or previous). You can
also tap or drag your finger on the tuner to
the desired frequency. The three bars on the
left side of the frequency number indicate the
strength of the signal for the chosen
frequency. Touch HD to play high definition
versions of available frequencies.
Mark a radio station as a favorite to display it
on the Radio source for easy access (see 
Favorites and Recent on page 105).
Internet Radio
Internet radio services are accessed over a
data connection. To use Internet radio, touch
Media Player's Spotify or TuneIn source,
browse through the available categories
and/or stations, and then touch what you
want to play. When browsing through a large
category such as genres, a second browse
page displays. Use the left arrow button on
the left side of Media Player to return to the
prior page, or tap on the source again to
return to the main browse page.
To play the next (and in some cases previous)
available station, episode, or track being
provided by the Internet radio service, touch
the next (or previous) arrows on the Now
Playing view, or use the buttons on the left
side of the steering wheel (see Using Left
Steering Wheel Buttons on page 34). The
function of these controls vary depending on
the Internet service you are listening to.
You can also use voice commands (English
language only) to play a specific song, artist,
or album from an Internet radio service (see 
Using Voice Commands on page 35).
When you are listening to internet radio, you
can do the following in the Now Playing view:
• Touch the Favorites icon to save the radio
station or podcast as a favorite. (See 
Favorites and Recent on page 105.)
• Touch any number to access digital radio
stations (if available). Digital radio stations
provide higher quality sound and (in some
cases) different programming than their
analog equivalents.
• Touch the right arrow to view a list of
tracks for a podcast or playlist.
By default, TuneIn uses a Tesla account that
has been set up for you. To sign in to your
personal TuneIn account, scroll to the bottom
of the TuneIn source, touch Sign In, and enter
the login information for your account.
Note: When playing a TuneIn podcast, you can
rewind or fast forward to any location in the
podcast. On the Now Playing view, drag the
arrow below the slider bar to the desired
location.
Note: Model S does not support free Spotify
trial accounts.
Media and Audio
104 Model S Owner's Manual
Favorites and Recent
To ensure you always have easy access to your
favorite stations and audio files, and to your
recently played selections, they display at the
top of Media Player and on the Now Playing
view. Regardless of which source you are on
(Radio, TuneIn, Phone, or USB), you see
favorites and recently played selections from
all sources. You can maximize or minimize
source content simply by swiping.
Your USB favorites are available from the Now
Playing view in a Favorites folder. (You may
need to scroll to see the folder.) Your first USB
favorite plays when you touch the Favorites
folder in the Now Playing view. Use the next or
previous arrows to scroll through your USB
favorites.
Note: In Spotify, you can save a playlist, but
you cannot select favorites.
To add a currently playing radio
station, podcast, or audio file to your
Favorites list, touch the Favorites
icon on the Now Playing view. (You
may need to touch the Now Playing
view to maximize it before you can
touch the Favorites icon.)
To delete a favorite, touch the
highlighted Favorites icon next to
the station name. You can also
delete one or more favorites on the
bottom of the Now Playing view by
pressing and holding a favorite. An X
appears on all favorites. Touch the X
again to delete the selected
favorites.
To see selections that you played recently,
touch Recent on the Now Playing view. Your
recently played selections are updated
continuously so you don't need to delete
them.
Playing Media from Devices
You can play audio files from a USB-
connected flash drive or from a Bluetooth-
connected device (like a phone). When you
connect a USB flash drive, Media Player
displays the USB source content. When you
connect a Bluetooth-capable device, the name
of the device displays on the Phone source.
After connecting a USB flash drive or
Bluetooth device, touch the song, album, or
playlist you want to play.
To play the next song in a selected playlist or
album, touch the previous or next arrows on
the Now Playing view, or use the buttons on
the left side of the steering wheel (see Using
Left Steering Wheel Buttons on page 34). You
can also shuffle tracks in a playlist or repeat a
playlist or track using the shuffle/repeat icons
displayed below the album cover art.
USB Connected Flash Drives
Connect a flash drive to one of the USB
connections (see USB Connections on page
106). Touch Media Player > USB, and then
touch the name of the folder that contains the
song you want to play. After you display the
contents of any folder on the USB connected
flash drive, you can touch the right arrow in
the Now Playing view to display your songs in
a list. Touch any song in the list to play it. Or
use the previous and next arrows in the Now
Playing view to scroll through your songs.
Note: To play media from a USB connection,
Model S recognizes flash drives only. You can
play media from other types of devices (such
as an iPod) by connecting to the device using
Bluetooth (described below).
Note: Media Player supports USB flash drives
with NTFS or FAT32 formatting. (exFAT is not
currently supported.)
Bluetooth
®
 Connected Devices
If you have a Bluetooth-capable device such
as a phone that is paired and connected to
Model S (see Pairing a Bluetooth Phone on
page 107), you can play audio files stored on
it. You can also stream a music service from it
(for example, Pandora or Spotify). Choose
Media Player's Phone source, touch Connect
Phone, touch the name of your Bluetooth-
connected device, and then touch CONNECT.
Your Bluetooth device begins playing the
audio file that is currently active on your
device, and Media Player displays the Now
Playing view. If no audio file is playing on your
device, select the audio file you want to listen
to from your device. After an audio file begins
to play in Media Player, you can then use
Media Player's controls to play other tracks.
Note: To play media from a Bluetooth-
connected device, ensure that access to the
device’s media is turned on (see Phone on
page 107).
Media and Audio
Using the Touchscreen 105
USB Connections
Your Model S has two USB connections
located on the front of the center console that
you can use to connect USB devices. To play
audio files stored on a USB drive connected to
these ports, see Playing Media from Devices
on page 105. You can also use these
connections to charge USB devices.
Note: Do not connect multiple devices using a
USB hub. This can prevent connected devices
from charging or from being recognized by
the Media Player.
12V Power Socket
Your Model S has a power socket located on
the front of the center console. Power is
available whenever the instrument panel and
touchscreen are on.
The 12V power socket is suitable for
accessories requiring up to 11A continuous
draw (15A peak) or a maximum of 150
continuous watts (180 watts peak).
Note: In situations where Model S is unable to
detect the key (low battery, interference, etc.),
place it immediately below the 12V power
socket where Model S can best detect it.
Warning: The power socket and an
accessory’s connector can become hot.
Media and Audio
106 Model S Owner's Manual
Bluetooth
®
 Compatibility
You can use your Bluetooth-capable phone
hands-free in Model S provided your phone is
within operating range. Although Bluetooth
typically supports wireless communication
over distances of up to approximately
9 metres, performance can vary based on the
phone you are using.
Before using your phone with Model S, you
must pair it. Pairing sets up Model S to work
with your Bluetooth-capable phone (see 
Pairing a Bluetooth Phone on page 107).
You can pair up to ten Bluetooth phones.
Model S always automatically connects to the
last phone that was used (provided it is within
range). If you want to connect to a different
phone, see Connecting to a Paired Phone on
page 108.
Note: On many phones, Bluetooth turns off if
the phone’s battery is low.
Note: In addition to phones, you can also pair
Bluetooth-enabled devices with Model S. For
example, you can pair an iPod Touch or an
iPad or Android tablet to stream music.
Pairing a Bluetooth Phone
Pairing sets up Model S to work with your
Bluetooth-capable phone. Once a phone is
paired, Model S can connect to it whenever
the phone is within range.
To pair a phone, follow these steps while
sitting inside Model S:
1. Ensure both the touchscreen and the
phone are powered on.
2. On the touchscreen’s status bar, touch the
Bluetooth icon.
3. On your phone, enable Bluetooth and set
it to discoverable.
4. On the Model S touchscreen, touch Start
Search. The touchscreen searches then
displays the list of all available Bluetooth
devices within operating distance.
5. On the Model S touchscreen, touch the
phone with which you want to pair. Within
a few seconds, the touchscreen displays a
randomly generated number, and your
phone should display the same number.
6. Check that the number displayed on your
phone matches the number displayed on
the touchscreen. Then, on your phone,
confirm that you want to pair.
When paired, Model S automatically connects
to the phone, and the touchscreen displays
the Bluetooth symbol next to the phone’s
name to show that the connection is active.
Importing Contacts and Recent
Calls
Once paired, you can use the Bluetooth
settings screen (touch the Bluetooth icon on
the touchscreen's status bar) to specify
whether you want to allow access to your
phone’s contacts and recent calls.
If access is turned on, you can see your list of
contacts and recent calls on the Model S
touchscreen. Touch Phone > Contacts. You can
then touch a contact to dial its phone number
or navigate to its address.
Note: Before contacts can be imported, you
may need to either set your phone to allow
syncing, or respond to a popup on your phone
to confirm that it is OK to sync contacts. This
varies depending on the type of phone you
are using. For details, refer to the owner
documentation provided with your phone.
If access is turned on, imported information is
displayed when you touch the contacts tab on
the Phone app.
Note: For security reasons, erase your
contacts if you sell Model S (see Erasing
Personal Data on page 96).
Unpairing a Bluetooth Phone
If you want to disconnect your phone and use
it again later, simply touch Disconnect on the
Bluetooth settings screen. If you do not want
to use your phone with Model S again, touch
Forget This Device. Once you forget a device,
you need to pair it again if you want to use it
with Model S (see Pairing a Bluetooth Phone
on page 107).
Note: Your phone automatically disconnects
whenever you leave Model S.
Phone
Using the Touchscreen 107
Connecting to a Paired Phone
Model S automatically connects with the last
phone to which it was connected, provided it
is within operating range and has Bluetooth
turned on. If the last phone is not within range,
it attempts to connect with the next phone
that it has been paired with.
To connect to a different phone, touch the
Bluetooth icon on the touchscreen's status
bar. The Bluetooth window displays a list of
paired phones. Choose the phone you want to
connect to, then touch Connect. If the phone
you want to connect to is not listed, follow the
instructions on Pairing a Bluetooth Phone on
page 107.
When connected, the Model S touchscreen
displays the Bluetooth symbol next to the
phone name to show that the connection is
active.
Making a Phone Call
You can make a phone call by:
• Speaking a voice command (English) (see 
Using Voice Commands on page 35).
• Choosing a contact from your contact list.
• Using the Model S on-screen dialer.
To make a phone call using the on-screen
dialer:
1. Touch the Phone app on the touchscreen,
then touch Dialer.
2. Enter the phone number on the dialer.
3. Touch Call. The touchscreen displays the
call screen and the number you are
calling.
To make a phone call by choosing a contact:
1. Touch the Phone app on the touchscreen,
then touch Contacts.
Note: Ensure that access to the phone’s
contacts is turned on (see Importing
Contacts and Recent Calls on page 107).
2. Touch the name of the contact you want
to call to display details about the contact.
3. Touch the number you want to dial (there
may be more than one). The touchscreen
displays the call screen and the name of
the contact you are calling.
Note: If it is safe and legal to do so, you can
also initiate a call by dialing the number or
selecting the contact directly from your
phone.
Receiving a Phone Call
When your phone receives an incoming call,
both the instrument panel and the
touchscreen display the caller’s number or
name (if the caller is in your phone’s contact
list and Model S has access to your contacts).
Touch one of the options on the touchscreen,
or use the scroll wheel on the right side of the
steering wheel to Answer or Ignore the call
(see Using Right Steering Wheel Buttons on
page 35).
In Call Options
When a call is in progress, you can display the
call menu on the instrument panel by pressing
the top button on the right side of the
steering wheel. Then use the right scroll wheel
to scroll through and choose an option (see 
Using Right Steering Wheel Buttons on page
35). To adjust the call volume, roll the steering
wheel's left scroll wheel during a call.
Phone
108 Model S Owner's Manual
Overview
Touch the Maps (or Nav) icon to view and
search for a location on Google MapsTM. If
Model S is equipped with the Navigation
option, the application is labeled Nav, and
onboard maps are available. Onboard maps
allow you to navigate to any location, even if a
data connection is not available, but you must
enter the location's exact and complete
address. If Model S is not equipped with the
Navigation option, onboard maps are not
available, but if you have a data connection,
you can find and display any location.
When you specify a location, the touchscreen
displays the route and provides turn-by-turn
directions. Each turn is preceded by the
distance to the maneuver. If you won't have
enough energy, and there is no Supercharger
on the route, an alert at the top of the turn-by-
turn directions tells you that charging is
required to reach your destination.
If the energy remaining after a round-trip is
less than ten percent, or if a round trip will
consume a significant amount of battery
energy, a round trip estimate of the energy
you will use displays at the bottom of the
turn-by-turn directions. You can display a
round trip energy estimate for all trips,
regardless of battery energy used, by
selecting Always Show Estimated Round Trip
Energy in the settings for Maps and
Navigation. When enabled, the round trip
energy estimate will always display at the
bottom of the turn-by-turn directions. You
may need to scroll to the bottom of the turn-
by-turn directions to see the round trip energy
estimate.)
Using Maps
Touch Navigate, or speak a voice command
(see Using Voice Commands on page 35), to
specify a location. You can enter or speak an
address, landmark, business, etc. You can also
touch Navigate and choose from Home and
Work locations, a list of favorite destinations
(see Favorite, Home, and Work Destinations
on page 111), recent locations and searches
(the most recently used locations display at
the top), and charging stations you have
visited.
When you touch the pin associated with a
location in the Recent or Favorites list, the
map centers the chosen location on the map,
and displays a popup that provides more
information about the location (such as
address, and if available, phone number).
From this popup window, you can also save
the location as a favorite, if equipped with the
Navigation option, initiate navigation to the
destination by touching Navigate, and call
someone at this location by touching Call. If
equipped with the Navigation option, when
you touch the name of a location in the
Recent or Favorites list (versus touching its
pin), you can initiate navigation immediately.
Model S calculates the route to it and displays
turn-by-turn directions.
By default the map displays Supercharger
locations (see Charging Locations on page
110). If Model S is equipped with the
Navigation option, you can drop a pin
anywhere on the map by pressing and holding
a location on the map.
Use the icons in the lower right corner to
customize what the map displays:
Satellite Imagery - touch to turn
satellite imagery on and off.
Charging locations (see Charging
Locations on page 110).
Touch the zoom icons in the top right area to
zoom the map in and out on your current or
chosen location. Touch the North/Heading Up
icon to center the map on your current
location and change the orientation of the
map:
North Up - North is always at the
top of the screen.
Heading Up - The direction you are
heading is always at the top of the
screen. The map rotates when you
change direction. This icon has an
integrated compass that indicates
the direction you are driving.
Maps and Navigation
Using the Touchscreen 109
You can rotate the map in any direction using
your fingers. When you rotate the map, the
North/Heading Up icon turns gray to indicate
the map is no longer tracking your position.
Touch the icon again to adjust the orientation
and track your position.
To maximize the size of the map, the
touchscreen's status bar and app area, as well
as the icons on the map, disappear after a few
seconds. Simply touch the map to redisplay
them.
Charging Locations
Superchargers are displayed on the map by
default, represented by red pins that you can
use to display more information about the
Supercharger, navigate to it, or mark it as a
favorite. In addition to Superchargers you can
display all types of charging stations by
touching the charging icon in the lower right
corner of the map.
Charging locations are represented on the
map as follows:
The Supercharger location is
operational.
The Supercharger location may be
out of operation or is operating at
a reduced capacity (touch the pin
to display details).
The location is equipped with a
charging station (High Power Wall
Connector). Touch to display more
information, such as the charging
station's capacity and usage
restrictions.
The location is equipped with more
than one charging station. The
number on the icon indicates how
many charging stations are located
at the destination. Zoom in to
display the pin for each charging
station (described above).
You can also display charging locations in a
popup list that includes city and proximity,
along with corresponding pins on the map. To
do so, touch Navigate, then type Find
Chargers.
Starting Navigation
1. Touch the Nav app to display the map.
2. Touch Navigate and enter a destination.
You can also use voice commands (see 
Steering Wheel on page 34), touch a
location in the Recent or Favorites list, or
touch a pin on the map, and then touch
Navigate from the popup.
Note: If you have a data connection, you
can start entering the destination, then
choose one of the auto-complete entries
that appear. For example, you can enter
just the street, business name, or category
(such as hotels, coffee, etc.). If you don’t
have a data connection, touch Navigate,
touch the Search field, and then touch
Offline Address Entry to use the onboard
maps. Enter the complete address, and
then touch Find.
Note: If a connected phone's calendar is set
up to work with Model S, and a calendar event
includes a specific location, you can initiate
navigation from the calendar (see Calendar on
page 113).
During Navigation
During navigation, the touchscreen displays a
turn-by-turn direction list that includes
estimated mileage, driving time, arrival time,
and an estimate of how much energy is
remaining when you reach the destination.
Note: If Model S requires charging to reach the
destination and Trip Planner is turned on (see 
Trip Planner on page 111), the navigation
route includes Supercharger stops.
The touchscreen also displays your location on
the map. Depending on the map’s zoom level,
you might not be able to see the entire route.
Whenever a navigation route is active, you can
display the full route on the map by touching
the route overview icon:
The route overview icon is available
in the top right corner of the map
whenever a navigation route is
active. You can touch this icon to
display the current leg of your trip
or to change the orientation of the
map to North Up or Heading Up
(see Using Maps on page 109).
Maps and Navigation
110 Model S Owner's Manual
During navigation, the instrument panel
displays the turn-by-turn directions, and you
will also hear spoken directions. To change the
volume of the spoken directions, use the scroll
wheel on the left side of the steering wheel
while navigation directions are being spoken.
You can also change or mute the volume by
touching the volume icon located in the top
right corner of the turn-by-turn direction list.
As you approach an upcoming turn on your
navigation route, a vertical progression bar
displays on the right side of the touchscreen's
turn-by-turn direction list. This vertical bar
also displays on the right side of the
navigation instructions on the instrument
panel. As you progress toward the location
where you will need to make a turn, the bar
fills, from bottom to top. When you arrive at
the location of the turn, the bar is completely
filled.
Trip Planner
Trip Planner helps you take longer road trips
with confidence. If reaching your destination
requires charging, Trip Planner routes you
through the appropriate Supercharger
locations. Trip Planner selects a route that
minimizes the time you spend driving and
charging. To use Trip Planner, touch Controls >
Settings > Apps > Maps and Navigation > Trip
Planner > On.
After you select a destination, Trip Planner
zooms out to give you an overview of your
trip. As you begin your trip, Trip Planner
zooms in to start navigation. The turn-by-turn
directions include:
• The list of Supercharger stops. (Trip
Planner does not use regular chargers.)
• The charging time required at each
Supercharger stop.
• The estimated amount of energy available
when you arrive at the first Supercharger
location.
Note: You can scroll down the list (or zoom
out on the map) to see the next Supercharger
location on your trip. Trip Planner estimates
how much time you will need to charge at
each location.
While charging at a Supercharger stop, the
charging screen displays the remaining charge
time needed for your trip. If you charge for a
shorter or longer length of time, the charge
time for subsequent stops are readjusted.
Note: If a Supercharger located on your
existing route experiences an outage, Trip
Planner displays a notification and reroutes
you to a different Supercharger location.
If Trip Planner estimates that you won't have
enough energy for your round trip, and there
is no Supercharger stop on your route, Trip
Planner displays an alert at the top of the
turn-by-turn directions and an empty battery
icon with the amount of additional energy
needed for your trip at the bottom of the turn-
by-turn directions.
Favorite, Home, and Work
Destinations
Add any destination to your
Favorites list by either touching its
pin while navigating to it, or by
displaying it on the map and then
touching its pin. In the popup dialog
that appears, touch the Favorites
icon, and then touch Add to
Favorites. To remove a favorite
destination, select it on the map,
touch the Favorites icon in the
popup that displays, and confirm
deletion of the favorite by touching
Delete.
If you frequently navigate to a destination, you
may want to add it as a Favorite to avoid
having to enter the location's name or address
each time. When you add a destination as a
Favorite, you can easily navigate to it by
touching Navigate > Favorites and then
selecting it from the list.
The Navigate option also has placeholders for
your Home and Work locations. In fact, based
on your usage patterns, Model S may prompt
you to save a current location as Home or
Work. After you save a Home and a Work
location, Model S may prompt you to navigate
to your Work location in the mornings and to
your Home location in the evenings and tell
you how long it will take to navigate in current
traffic conditions. To navigate to your Work or
Home location, simply press NAV TO WORK
or NAV TO HOME when prompted. You can
also press Settings and specify an amount of
time to be saved (in five minute increments,
up to 30 minutes) before Model S reroutes
your drive to your Home or Work location.
Maps and Navigation
Using the Touchscreen 111
To edit Home and Work locations (or any
location), touch Navigate, press and hold your
Home or Work location, and enter a new
address in the pop-up. You can also delete any
location in the Recent or Favorites list by
pressing and holding the location, and then
touching its associated X.
Note: For security reasons, if you sell Model S,
erase your Home and Work locations, and
your favorite destinations (see Erasing
Personal Data on page 96).
Updated Maps
To receive updated maps, periodically connect
Model S to a Wi-Fi network (see Connecting
to Wi-Fi on page 116). As updated maps
become available, they are sent to Model S
over Wi-Fi only. The touchscreen displays a
message informing you when new maps have
been installed.
Maps and Navigation
112 Model S Owner's Manual
Overview
The Calendar app allows you to view your phone’s (iPhone
®
 or Android™) calendar for the current
and next day. The Calendar app requires that:
• The Tesla Model S mobile app is running and you are logged in. When prompted on your
phone, you must grant calendar access to the mobile app. The mobile app can then
periodically (and automatically) send calendar data from your phone to Model S. Also,
whenever you display the mobile app on your phone, updated calendar data is sent to
Model S. To ensure you have access to all features of the Calendar app, you will need the latest
version of the mobile app.
• Your phone is connected to Model S via Bluetooth (for privacy reasons, calendar data displays
only from a phone that is connected via Bluetooth).
• Remote access to Model S is turned on (touch Controls > Settings > Safety & Security >
Remote Access > On).
• Both your phone and Model S have good connectivity.
When you enter Model S, the touchscreen can display a reminder of the day's events. You can
customize if and when your calendar events are displayed by touching Controls > Settings >
Apps > Calendar > Show Calendar Upon Entry.
To view scheduled events for the next 48 hours, choose the Calendar app from the main
touchscreen window. The Calendar app displays events in chronological order.
1. If the calendar event includes an address, a navigation arrow displays to indicate that you can
touch the address to navigate to the event's location (if your Model S is equipped with
Navigation).
2. If a phone number is associated with a calendar event, you can touch the number to initiate a
phone call.
3. In situations where events are displayed from multiple calendars, you can filter to show only
events from one or more specific calendars.
4. If the calendar event has notes associated with it, touch the information icon to display the
notes in a pop up window.
5. If an event's notes include one or more phone numbers, a phone symbol displays with the
information icon and the first phone number found in the notes displays on the event list and
you can use this number to initiate a phone call (as described in item 2 above). But you can
also initiate a call from within the notes pop up window by referencing other numbers that are
included in the notes (this is particularly useful for conference calls).
Calendar
Using the Touchscreen 113
Calendar and Navigation
If Model S is equipped with navigation, and a calendar event has a location specified, you will be
given the option to navigate to that location.
Calendar
114 Model S Owner's Manual
About the Security System
If Model S does not detect a key nearby and a
locked door or trunk is opened, an alarm
sounds and headlights and turn signals flash.
To deactivate the alarm, press any button on
the key.
To manually enable or disable the alarm
system, touch Controls > Settings > Safety &
Security > Alarm. When set to on, Model S
activates its alarm one minute after the doors
lock and a recognized key is no longer
detected nearby.
Security Settings
Using the Touchscreen 115
Wi-Fi is available as a data connection method
and is often faster than cellular data networks.
Connecting to Wi-Fi is especially useful in
areas with limited or no cellular connectivity.
To ensure fast, reliable delivery of Model S
updates (see Software Updates on page 117),
Tesla recommends leaving Wi-Fi turned on
and connected to a Wi-Fi network. To connect
to a Wi-Fi network:
1. Touch the 3G (or LTE) icon in the
touchscreen status bar. Model S will start
scanning and display the Wi-Fi networks
that are within range.
2. Select the Wi-Fi network you want to use,
enter the password (if necessary), then
touch Connect.
You can also connect to a hidden network that
isn't shown on the list of scanned networks.
Just touch Wi-Fi Settings and enter the name
of the network in the resulting dialog box.
Once you have connected to a network,
Model S auto-connects whenever the network
is within range. If more than one previously
connected network is within range, Model S
connects to the one most recently used.
Note: You can also use a mobile hotspot or
your phone's Internet connection via Wi-Fi
tethering.
Note: At Tesla service centers, Model S
automatically connects to a Tesla Service Wi-
Fi access point.
Connecting to Wi-Fi
116 Model S Owner's Manual
Loading New Software
Model S updates its software wirelessly,
providing new features throughout your term
of ownership. Tesla recommends that you
install software update as soon as they are
available. The first time you enter Model S
after an update is made available, a scheduling
window displays on the touchscreen. The
scheduling window displays again at the end
of your first driving session.
Note: Some software updates can take from
two to three hours to complete. Model S must
be in P (Park) when the new software is being
installed. To ensure the fastest and most
reliable delivery of software updates, leave the
Wi-Fi turned on and connected whenever
possible (see Connecting to Wi-Fi on page
116).
When a software update is available, a yellow
clock icon appears on the touchscreen’s status
bar. Touch this clock icon to display the
update window. You can then either:
• Schedule the update by setting the time
you want the update to begin. Then touch
Set For This Time. Once scheduled, the
yellow clock icon on the touchscreen’s
status bar becomes white. You can
reschedule the update any time before it
begins.
OR
• Touch Install Now to immediately start the
update process.
If Model S is charging when the software
update begins, charging stops. Charging
resumes automatically when the update is
complete. If you are driving Model S at the
scheduled update time, the update is canceled
and you need to reschedule.
Note: In certain situations (for example, Tesla
has determined that a software update is very
important and you have not installed it within
a specific time frame), the touchscreen
displays a much larger software update
window asking you to INSTALL NOW (no
longer giving you an opportunity to set an
update for a specific time). Although you can
continue to drive Model S and all controls are
available, this large software update window is
intrusive because it persists until you install
the update. Damages or failures caused by not
keeping your vehicle's software up-to-date
may not be covered by the warranty.
If the touchscreen displays a message
indicating that a software update was not
successfully completed, contact Tesla.
Viewing Release Notes
When a software update is complete, learn
about the new features by displaying the
release notes. To display release notes at any
time touch the Tesla “T” at the top center of
the touchscreen, then touch Release Notes.
Software Updates
Using the Touchscreen 117
Model S Mobile App
The Tesla Model S mobile app allows you to
communicate with Model S remotely using
your iPhone
®
 or Android™ phone. With this
app, you can:
• Check charging progress and receive
notifications when charging has started,
has been interrupted, or is complete.
• Heat or cool Model S before driving (even
if it's in a garage).
• Locate Model S with directions, or track its
movement across a map.
• Flash lights or honk the horn to find
Model S when parked.
• Vent or close the sunroof.
• Lock or unlock Model S from afar.
• Start Model S.
• Park or unpark Model S using Summon
(see Using Summon on page 77).
• Support the Model S Calendar app by
allowing the mobile app to send your
phone's calendar data to Model S.
• Receive notifications when the car alarm
has been triggered, or a new Model S
software update is available.
• Receive notifications of scheduled
software updates.
Simply download the Tesla Model S mobile
app to your phone and enter your MY TESLA
login credentials. You must also ensure that
Model S is ready to communicate with the
mobile app by turning on its remote access
setting. Touch Controls > Settings > Safety &
Security > Remote Access > On (see Settings
on page 93).
Note: Tesla does not support the use of third
party applications to contact Model S.
Note: To ensure access to new and improved
features, download updated versions of the
mobile app as they become available.
Mobile App
118 Model S Owner's Manual
High Voltage Components
1. Front Motor (dual-motor vehicles only)
2. AC Compressor
3. Battery Coolant Heater
4. Forward Junction Box
5. High Voltage Cabling
6. On-board Charger
7. DC-DC Converter
8. Cabin Heater
9. Battery
10. Charge Port
11. Rear Motor
Warning: The high voltage system has no user serviceable parts. Do not disassemble, remove
or replace high voltage components, cables or connectors. High voltage cables are colored
orange for easy identification.
Warning: Read and follow all instructions provided on the labels that are attached to Model S.
These labels are there for your safety.
Warning: In the unlikely event that a fire occurs, immediately contact your local fire
emergency responders.
Electric Vehicle Components
Charging 119
Charging Equipment
Charging equipment designed specifically to
charge your Model S is available from Tesla. A
Tesla Wall Connector, which installs in your
garage, is the fastest way to charge Model S at
home.
In several market regions, Model S is equipped
with a Mobile Connector and the adapter(s)
you need to plug into commonly used power
outlets. When using the Mobile Connector,
first plug the Mobile Connector into the power
outlet, then plug in Model S. For more
information about your Mobile Connector, see
the Mobile Connector Owner’s Manual
(available on the touchscreen). Additional
adapters can be purchased from Tesla.
Tesla also provides various types of adapters
(including J1772, Mennekes Type 2, and
CHAdeMO) that allow you to plug Model S
into the most commonly used public charging
stations in your region. Connect the adapter to
the charging station’s charge cable, open the
charge port door using the touchscreen (see 
Charging Instructions on page 122), then
plug in Model S.
For more information on the charging
equipment available for your region, go to 
www.teslamotors.com/en_AU, then view the
available charging options.
Electric Vehicle Components
120 Model S Owner's Manual
About the Battery
Model S has one of the most sophisticated
battery systems in the world. The most
important way to preserve the Battery is to
LEAVE YOUR Model S PLUGGED IN when you
are not using it. This is particularly important if
you are not planning to drive Model S for
several weeks. When plugged in, Model S
wakes up when needed to automatically
maintain a charge level that maximizes the
lifetime of the Battery.
There is no advantage to waiting until the
Battery’s level is low before charging. In fact,
the Battery performs best when charged
regularly.
Note: If the Model S Battery becomes
completely discharged in a situation in which
towing is required, the owner is responsible
for towing expenses. Discharge-related towing
expenses are not covered under the Roadside
Assistance policy.
Battery Care
Never allow the Battery to fully discharge.
Even when Model S is not being driven, its
Battery discharges very slowly to power the
onboard electronics. On average, the Battery
discharges at a rate of 1% per day. Situations
can arise in which you must leave Model S
unplugged for an extended period of time (for
example, at an airport when traveling). In
these situations, keep the 1% in mind to ensure
that you leave the Battery with a sufficient
charge level. For example, over a two week
period (14 days), the Battery discharges by
approximately 14%.
Discharging the Battery to 0% may
permanently damage the Battery. To protect
against a complete discharge, Model S enters
a low-power consumption mode when the
charge level drops to 5%. In this mode, the
Battery stops supporting the onboard
electronics to slow the discharge rate to
approximately 4% per month. Once this low-
power consumption mode is active, it is
important to plug in Model S within two
months to avoid Battery damage.
Note: When the low-power consumption
mode is active, the auxiliary 12V battery is no
longer being charged and can completely
discharge within 12 hours. In the unlikely event
that this occurs, you may need to jump start
or replace the 12V battery before you can
charge. In this situation, contact Tesla.
Temperature Limits
For better long-term performance, avoid
exposing Model S to ambient temperatures
above 60° C or below -30° C for more than 24
hours at a time.
Energy Saving Feature
Model S has an energy-saving feature that
reduces the amount of energy being
consumed when Model S is not in use. Touch
Controls > Displays > Energy Saving. For more
information on maximizing range and saving
energy, see Getting Maximum Range on page
59.
Battery Warnings and Cautions
Warning: The Battery has no parts that an
owner or a non-Tesla authorized service
technician can service. Under no
circumstances should you open or tamper
with the Battery. Always contact Tesla to
arrange for Battery servicing.
Caution: If the Battery’s charge level falls
to 0%, you must plug it in. If you leave it
unplugged for an extended period, it may
not be possible to charge Model S or use
the vehicle without jump starting or
replacing the 12V battery. Leaving
Model S unplugged for an extended
period can also result in permanent
Battery damage. If you are unable to
charge Model S, contact Tesla
immediately.
Caution: The Battery requires no owner
maintenance. Do not remove the filler cap
and do not add fluid. If the instrument
panel warns you that the fluid level is low,
contact Tesla immediately.
Caution: Do not use the Battery as a
stationary power source. Doing so voids
the warranty.
Battery Information
Charging 121
Opening the Charge Port
The charge port is located on the passenger side of Model S, behind a door that is part of the rear
tail light assembly.
Park Model S so that the charge cable easily reaches the charge port.
With Model S unlocked, or a recognized key nearby, press and release the button on a Tesla
charge cable to open the charge port door.
If the cable you are using does not have this button, you can also open the charge port door using
any of these methods:
• Touch Controls > Charge Port on the touchscreen.
• Hold down the rear trunk button on the key for 1-2 seconds.
To charge at a public charging station, attach an adapter to the station’s charging connector. The
most commonly used adapter(s) for each market region are supplied with Model S. Depending on
the charging equipment you are using, you may need to start and stop charging using a control on
the charging equipment.
Note: The charge port lights up white when you open the charge port door. If you do not connect
a charge cable, the light eventually turns off.
Note: If you do not insert the charge cable into the charge port within a few minutes after opening
the charge port door, the latch closes. If this happens, use the touchscreen to open the charge
port door.
Caution: The connector end of the charge cable can damage the paint if dropped onto
Model S.
Caution: Do not attempt to force the charge port door open. Doing so can damage the latch.
A damaged latch cannot hold the door closed.
Plugging In
If desired, use the touchscreen to change the charge limit and the charging current.
If you are using the Mobile Connector, plug it into the power outlet before plugging it into
Model S.
Align the connector to the charge port and insert fully. When the connector is properly inserted,
charging begins automatically after Model S:
• Engages a latch that holds the connector in place.
• Shifts into Park (if it was in any other gear).
• Heats or cools the Battery, if needed. If the Battery requires heating or cooling, you may
notice a delay before charging begins.
Note: Whenever Model S is plugged in but not actively charging, it draws energy from the wall
instead of using energy stored in the Battery. For example, if you are sitting in Model S and using
Charging Instructions
122 Model S Owner's Manual
the touchscreen while parked and plugged in, Model S draws energy from the wall outlet instead
of the Battery.
Charging Instructions
Charging 123
During Charging
During charging, the charge port pulses green and charging status displays on the instrument
panel. The frequency at which the charge port’s light pulses slows down as the charge level
approaches full. When charging is complete, the light stops pulsing and is solid green.
Note: If Model S is locked, the light around the charge port does not light up.
If the light around the charge port lights up red while charging, a fault is detected. Check the
instrument panel or touchscreen for a message describing the fault. A fault can occur due to
something as common as a power outage. If a power outage occurs, charging resumes
automatically when power is restored.
Note: When charging, particularly at high currents, the refrigerant compressor and the fan operate
as needed to keep the Battery cool. Therefore, it is normal to hear sounds during charging.
Stopping Charging
You can stop charging at any time by disconnecting the charge cable or touching Stop Charging
on the touchscreen.
Note: To prevent unauthorized unplugging of the charge cable, Model S must be unlocked or able
to recognize a key before you can disconnect the charge cable.
To disconnect the charge cable:
1. Press and hold the button on a Tesla connector to release the latch. You can also touch Stop
Charging on the charging screen (see Changing Charge Settings on page 126).
2. Pull the connector from the charge port.
3. Push the charge port door closed.
Note: If Model S is equipped with a motorized charge port door, it automatically closes when you
remove the charge cable.
Caution: Tesla strongly recommends leaving Model S plugged in when not in use. This
maintains the Battery at the optimum level of charge.
Charging Instructions
124 Model S Owner's Manual
Charge Port Light
• WHITE: The charge port door is open and Model S is ready to charge. The connector either
hasn't been inserted yet, or the latch is released and the connector is ready to be removed.
• SOLID GREEN: Charging is complete.
• BLINKING GREEN: Charging is in progress. As Model S approaches a full charge, the
frequency of the blinking is slower.
• BLUE: Model S detects that a connector has been plugged in, but charging has not started.
Either Model S is preparing to charge, or a charging session is scheduled to begin at a
specified future time.
• SOLID AMBER: The connector is not fully plugged in. Realign the connector to the charge
port and insert fully.
• BLINKING AMBER: Model S is charging at a reduced current (AC charging only).
• RED: A fault is detected and charging has stopped. Check the instrument panel or
touchscreen for a message describing the fault.
Charging Instructions
Charging 125
Changing Charge Settings
The charge settings screen displays on the touchscreen whenever the charge port door is open.
To display charge settings at any time, touch the Battery icon on the top of the touchscreen, or
touch Controls > Charging (located in the upper right portion of the Controls screen).
Note: The following illustration is provided for demonstration purposes only and may vary slightly
depending on the software version and market region of your Model S.
1. Charge status messages (such as Charging Scheduled, Charging In Progress) display here.
2. To adjust the charge limit, touch Set Charge Limit, then touch the arrows to move the charge
limit setting in 10% increments for daily driving, and 2% increments for trips. The setting you
choose applies to both immediate and scheduled charging sessions.
3. Location-specific schedule. With Model S in Park, set a specific time when you want Model S
to begin charging at the current location. If, at the scheduled time, Model S is not plugged in
at the location, it will start charging as soon as you plug it in as long as you are plugging it in
within six hours of the scheduled time. If you plug in after six hours, Model S does not start
charging until the scheduled time on the next day. To override this setting, touch Start
Charging or Stop Charging (see item 4). When you set a scheduled charging time, Model S
displays the set time on the instrument panel and the touchscreen.
4. Touch to open the charge port door or to start (or stop) charging.
5. The current automatically sets to the maximum current available from the attached charge
cable, unless it was previously reduced to a lower level.
If needed, touch the up/down arrows to change the current (for example, you may want to
reduce the current if you are concerned about overloading a domestic wiring circuit shared by
other equipment). It is not possible to set the charging current to a level that exceeds the
maximum available from the attached charge cable.
When you change the current, Model S remembers the location. So if you subsequently
charge at the same location, you do not need to change it again.
Note: If Model S automatically reduced a charging location's current because of ﬂuctuations in
input power (see the note in Charging Status on page 127), Tesla recommends charging at
the lower current until the underlying problem is resolved and the charging location can
provide consistent power.
Charging Instructions
126 Model S Owner's Manual
Charging Status
The following illustration is provided for demonstration purposes only and may vary slightly
depending on the software version and market region of your Model S.
1. Charging status information. For example, if Model S is charging, it displays the time
remaining until fully charged at the currently selected charge level. When a charging session
has been scheduled, it displays when charging starts.
2. Total estimated driving distance (or energy) available. Instead of driving distance as shown
here, you can display the percentage of battery energy remaining by touching Controls >
Settings > Units & Format > Energy & Charging.
Note: A portion of the battery image may appear blue. This indicates that a small portion of
the energy stored in the battery is not available because the battery is cold. This is normal and
no reason for concern. When the battery warms up, the blue portion no longer displays.
3. Charging rate per hour.
4. Estimated increase in driving distance (or energy) achieved so far in this charging session.
Instead of driving distance as illustrated above, you can display the amount of energy gained
by touching Controls > Settings > Units & Format > Energy & Charging.
5. Current being supplied/current available from the connected power supply (see Changing
Charge Settings on page 126).
6. Voltage being supplied by the charge cable.
Note: If Model S is charging and detects unexpected ﬂuctuations in input power, the charging
current is automatically reduced by 25%. For example, a 40 amp current is reduced to 30 amps.
This automatic current reduction increases robustness and safety in situations when a problem
exists outside of Model S and its charging electronics. For example, a home wiring system,
receptacle, adapter or cord is unable to meet its rated current capacity. As a precaution, when
Model S automatically reduces a location's current, it saves the reduced current at the charging
location. Although you can manually increase it, Tesla recommends charging at the lower current
until the underlying problem is resolved and the charging location can provide consistent power.
Charging Instructions
Charging 127
Service Intervals
Regular maintenance is the key to ensuring
the continued reliability and efficiency of your
Model S.
Rotate the tires every 10000 km, maintain the
correct tire pressures, and take Model S to
Tesla at the regularly scheduled maintenance
intervals of every 12 months, or every
20,000 km, whichever comes first. It is also
important to perform the daily and monthly
checks described below.
Model S must be serviced by Tesla-certified
technicians. Damages or failures caused by
maintenance or repairs performed by non-
Tesla certified technicians are not covered by
the warranty.
Daily Checks
• Check the Battery’s charge level,
displayed on the instrument panel.
• Check that all exterior lights, horn, turn
signals, and wipers and washers are
working.
• Check the operation of the brakes,
including the parking brake.
• Check the operation of the seat belts
(see Seat Belts on page 19).
• Look for fluid deposits underneath
Model S that might indicate a leak. It is
normal for a small pool of water to form
(caused by the air conditioning system’s
dehumidifying process).
Monthly Checks
• Check the mileage to determine if the
tires need to be rotated (every
10000 km), and check the condition and
pressure of each tire (see Tire Care and
Maintenance on page 129).
• Check washer fluid level and top up if
necessary (see Topping Up Washer Fluid
on page 146).
• Check that the air conditioning system is
operating (see Climate Controls on page
97).
Warning: Contact Tesla immediately if you
notice any significant or sudden drop in
fluid levels or uneven tire wear.
Fluid Replacement Intervals
Do not change or top up Battery coolant and
brake fluid yourself. Tesla service technicians
replace fluids at the regularly scheduled
service intervals:
• Brake fluid. Every 2 years or 40,000 km,
whichever comes first.
• Battery coolant. Every 4 years or
80,000 km, whichever comes first.
Note: Any damage from opening the Battery
coolant reservoir is excluded from the
warranty.
High Voltage Safety
Your Model S has been designed and built
with safety as a priority. However, be aware of
these precautions to protect yourself from the
risk of injury inherent in all high-voltage
systems:
• Read and follow all instructions provided
on the labels that are attached to Model S.
These labels are there for your safety.
• The high voltage system has no user-
serviceable parts. Do not disassemble,
remove or replace high voltage
components, cables or connectors. High
voltage cables are colored orange for easy
identification.
• If an accident occurs, do not touch any
high voltage wiring, connectors, or
components connected to the wiring.
• In the unlikely event that a fire occurs,
immediately contact your local fire
emergency responders.
Warning: Always disconnect the charge
cable before working underneath
Model S, even if charging is not in
progress.
Warning: Keep your hands and clothing
away from cooling fans. Some fans
operate even when Model S is powered
off.
Caution: Some fluids (battery acid,
Battery coolant, brake fluid, windshield
washer additives, etc.) used in motor
vehicles are poisonous and should not be
inhaled, swallowed, or brought into
contact with open wounds. For your
safety, always read and follow instructions
printed on fluid containers.
Maintenance Schedule
128 Model S Owner's Manual
Maintaining Tire Pressures
Keep tires inflated to the pressures shown on
the Tire and Loading Information label, even if
it differs from the pressure printed on the tire
itself. The Tire and Loading Information label is
located on the center door pillar and is visible
when the driver’s door is open.
The Tire Pressure indicator light on
the instrument panel alerts you if
one or more tires is under- or over-
inflated.
The Tire Pressure indicator light does not
immediately turn off when you adjust tire
pressure. After inflating the tire to the
recommended pressure, you must drive over
40 km/h for more than 10 minutes to activate
the Tire Pressure Monitoring System (TPMS),
which turns off the Tire Pressure indicator
light.
If the indicator light flashes for one minute
whenever you power on Model S, a fault with
the Tire Pressure Monitoring System (TPMS) is
detected (see TPMS Malfunction on page
133).
Checking and Adjusting Tire Pressures
Follow these steps when tires are cold and
Model S has been stationary for over three
hours:
1. Remove the valve cap.
2. Firmly press an accurate tire pressure
gauge onto the valve to measure pressure.
3. If required, add air to reach the
recommended pressure.
4. Re-check pressure by removing and re-
attaching the tire gauge.
5. If you added too much air, release air by
pressing the metal stem in the center of
the valve.
6. Recheck the pressure with the tire gauge
and adjust if necessary.
7. Replace the valve cap to prevent dirt from
entering. Periodically check the valve for
damage and leaks.
Warning: Under-inflation is the most
common cause of tire failures and can
cause a tire to overheat, resulting in
severe tire cracking, tread separation, or
blowout, which causes unexpected loss of
vehicle control and increased risk of
injury. Under-inflation also reduces
Battery range and tire tread life.
Warning: Check tire pressures using an
accurate pressure gauge when tires are
cold. It takes only about 1.6 kms of driving
to warm up the tires sufficiently to affect
tire pressures. Parking the vehicle in
direct sunlight or in hot weather can also
affect tire pressures. If you must check
warm tires, expect increased pressures.
Do not let air out of warm tires in an
attempt to match recommended cold tire
pressures. A hot tire at or below the
recommended cold tire inflation pressure
is dangerously under-inflated.
Warning: Do not use any tire sealant
other than the type provided in a Tesla
tire repair kit. Other types can cause tire
pressure sensors to malfunction. If your
Model S did not include a tire repair kit,
you can purchase one from Tesla.
Tire Care and Maintenance
Maintenance 129
Inspecting and Maintaining Tires
Regularly inspect the tread and side walls for
any sign of distortion (bulges), cuts or wear.
Warning: Do not drive Model S if a tire is
damaged, excessively worn, or inflated to
an incorrect pressure. Check tires
regularly for wear, and ensure there are
no cuts, bulges or exposure of the ply/
cord structure.
Tire Wear
Adequate tread depth is important for proper
tire performance. Tires with a tread depth less
than 3 mm are more likely to hydroplane in
wet conditions and should not be used. Tires
with a tread depth less than 4 mm do not
perform well in snow and slush and should not
be used when driving in winter conditions.
Model S is originally fitted with tires that have
wear indicators molded into the tread pattern.
When the tread has been worn down to 3 mm,
the indicators start to appear at the surface of
the tread pattern, producing the effect of a
continuous band of rubber across the width of
the tire. For optimal performance and safety,
Tesla recommends replacing tires before the
wear indicators are visible.
Tire Rotation, Balance, and Wheel Alignment
Tesla recommends rotating the tires every
10,000 km.
Unbalanced wheels (sometimes noticeable as
vibration through the steering wheel) affect
vehicle handling and tire life. Even with regular
use, wheels can get out of balance. Therefore,
they should be balanced as required.
If tire wear is uneven (on one side of the tire
only) or becomes abnormally excessive, check
the alignment of wheels.
Note: When replacing only two tires, always
install the new tires on the rear.
Punctured Tires
A puncture eventually causes the tire to lose
pressure, which is why it is important to check
tire pressures frequently. Permanently repair
or replace punctured or damaged tires as
soon as possible.
Your tubeless tires may not leak when
penetrated, provided the object remains in the
tire. If, however, you feel a sudden vibration or
ride disturbance while driving, or you suspect
a tire is damaged, immediately reduce your
speed. Drive slowly, while avoiding heavy
braking or sharp steering and, when safe to do
so, stop the vehicle. Arrange to have Model S
transported to a Tesla service center, or to a
nearby tire repair center.
Note: In some cases, you can temporarily
repair small tire punctures (under 6 mm) using
an optional tire repair kit available from Tesla.
This allows you to slowly drive Model S to
Tesla or to a nearby tire repair facility (see 
Temporary Tire Repair on page 135).
Warning: Do not drive with a punctured
tire, even if the puncture has not caused
the tire to deflate. A punctured tire can
deflate suddenly at any time.
Flat Spots
If Model S is stationary for a long period in
high temperatures, tires can form flat spots.
When Model S is driven, these flat spots cause
a vibration which gradually disappears as the
tires warm up and regain their original shape.
To minimize flat spots during storage, inflate
tires to the maximum pressure indicated on
the tire wall. Then, before driving, release air
to adjust tire pressure to the recommended
levels.
Improving Tire Mileage
To improve the mileage you get from your
tires, maintain tires at the recommended tire
pressures, observe speed limits and advisory
speeds, and avoid:
• Pulling away quickly, or hard acceleration.
• Fast turns and heavy braking.
• Potholes and objects in the road.
• Hitting curbs when parking.
• Contaminating tires with fluids that can
cause damage.
Tire Care and Maintenance
130 Model S Owner's Manual
Replacing Tires and Wheels
Tires degrade over time due to the effects of
ultraviolet light, extreme temperatures, high
loads, and environmental conditions. It is
recommended that tires are replaced every six
years, or sooner if required.
Wheel rims and tires are matched to suit the
handling characteristics of the vehicle.
Replacement tires must comply with the
original specification. If tires other than those
specified are used, ensure that the load and
speed ratings marked on the tire (see 
Understanding Tire Markings on page 158)
equal or exceed those of the original
specification.
Ideally, you should replace all four tires at the
same time. If this is not possible, replace the
tires in pairs (both front or both rear). When
replacing tires, always re-balance and check
the alignment of wheels.
If you replace a wheel, the TPMS (Tire Pressure
Monitoring System) sensors need to be reset
to ensure they provide accurate warnings
when tires are under- or over-inflated (see 
Resetting the TPMS Sensors on page 133).
For the specification of the original wheels
and tires installed on Model S, see Wheels and
Tires on page 157.
Warning: For your safety, use only tires
and wheels that match the original
specification (see Wheels and Tires on
page 157). Tires that do not match the
original specification can affect the
operation of the Tire Pressure Monitoring
System (TPMS).
Warning: Never exceed the speed rating
of your vehicle's tires. The speed rating is
shown on the sidewall of your tires (see 
Understanding Tire Markings on page
158).
Asymmetric Tires
Model S tires are asymmetric and must be
mounted on the wheel with the correct
sidewall facing outward. The sidewall of the
tire is marked with the word OUTSIDE. When
new tires are installed, make sure that the tires
are correctly mounted on the wheels.
Warning: Road holding is seriously
impaired if the tires are incorrectly
installed on the wheels.
Tire Care and Maintenance
Maintenance 131
Seasonal Tire Types
Summer Tires
Your Model S may be originally equipped with
high performance summer tires. These tires
are designed for maximum dry and wet road
performance and not designed to perform
well in winter conditions. Tesla recommends
using winter tires if driving in cold
temperatures or on roads where snow or ice
may be present. Contact Tesla for winter tire
recommendations.
Warning: In cold temperatures or on snow
or ice, summer tires do not provide
adequate traction. Selecting and installing
the appropriate tires for winter conditions
is important to ensure the safety and
optimum performance of your Model S,
even when equipped with dual-motors.
All-Season Tires
Your Model S may be originally equipped with
all-season tires. These tires are designed to
provide adequate traction in most conditions
year-round, but may not provide the same
level of traction as winter tires in snowy or icy
conditions. All-season tires can be identified
by “ALL SEASON" and/or "M+S” (mud and
snow) on the tire sidewall.
Winter Tires
Use winter tires to increase traction in snowy
or icy conditions. When installing winter tires,
always install a complete set of four tires at
the same time. Winter tires must be the same
size, brand, construction and tread pattern on
all four wheels. Contact Tesla for winter tire
recommendations.
Winter tires can be identified by a
mountain/snowflake symbol on the
tire's sidewall.
When driving with winter tires, you may
experience more road noise, shorter tread life,
and less traction on dry roads.
Driving in Low Temperatures
Tire performance is reduced in low ambient
temperatures, resulting in reduced grip and an
increased susceptibility to damage from
impacts. Performance tires can temporarily
harden when cold, causing you to hear
rotational noise for the first few km until the
tires warm up.
Using Tire Chains
Tesla has tested and approved Maggie Group
Trak Sport P217 snow chains to increase
traction in snowy conditions. These chains
must only be installed on rear 19" tires. Do not
use chains on 21" tires or on front tires. The
approved snow chains can be purchased from
Tesla.
When installing tire chains, follow the
instructions provided by the tire chain
manufacturer. Mount them as tightly as
possible.
When using tire chains:
• Drive slowly. Do not exceed 48 km/h.
• Avoid heavily loading Model S (heavy
loads can reduce the clearance between
the tires and the body).
• Remove the tire chains as soon as
conditions allow.
Note: Tire chains are prohibited in some
jurisdictions. Check local laws before installing
tire chains.
Caution: Using non-recommended tire
chains, or using tire chains on other sized
tires, can damage the suspension, body,
wheels, and/or brake lines. Damage
caused by using non-recommended tire
chains is not covered by the warranty.
Caution: Do not use chains on a Model S
equipped with 21" tires and do not use
tire chains on front tires.
Caution: Ensure that tire chains cannot
touch suspension components or brake
lines. If you hear the chains making
unusual noises that would indicate
contact with Model S, stop and
investigate immediately.
Tire Care and Maintenance
132 Model S Owner's Manual
Tire Pressure Monitoring
Each tire should be checked monthly when
cold and inflated to the recommended
pressures that are printed on the Tire and
Loading Information label located on the
driver’s door pillar (see Maintaining Tire
Pressures on page 129). If your vehicle has
tires of a different size than the size indicated
on the vehicle placard or tire inflation pressure
label, determine the proper tire inflation
pressure for those tires.
As an added safety feature, your vehicle has
been equipped with a tire pressure monitoring
system (TPMS) that displays a tire pressure
telltale (Tire Pressure Warning) on the
instrument panel when one or more of your
tires is significantly under- or over-inflated.
Accordingly, when the Tire Pressure indicator
light displays on the instrument panel to alert
you about tire pressure, stop and check your
tires as soon as possible, and inflate them to
the proper pressure (see Maintaining Tire
Pressures on page 129). Driving on a
significantly under-inflated tire causes the tire
to overheat and can lead to tire failure. Under-
inflation also reduces fuel efficiency and tire
tread life, and may affect the vehicle's
handling and stopping ability.
If Model S detects a fault with the
Tire Pressure Monitoring System
(TPMS), this indicator flashes for one
minute whenever you power on
Model S.
Note: Installing accessories that are not
approved by Tesla can interfere with the
TPMS.
Warning: The TPMS is not a substitute for
proper tire maintenance, including
manually checking tire pressures and
regularly inspecting the condition of tires.
It is the driver's responsibility to maintain
correct tire pressure, even if under- or
over-inflation has not reached the level
for the TPMS to trigger the Tire Pressure
Warning on the instrument panel.
Resetting the TPMS Sensors
After replacing one or more wheels, the TPMS
sensors must be reset to ensure tire pressure
warnings are accurate. However, note that the
TPMS sensors do not need to be reset after
replacing a tire or rotating wheels.
Note: When changing to 21" wheels, the TPMS
may generate false tire pressure warnings.
Bring Model S to a Tesla service center for
further adjustment.
Note: Do not reset the TPMS sensors in an
attempt to clear tire pressure warnings.
To reset TPMS sensors:
1. Inflate all tires to their recommended
pressures, as indicated on the Tire and
Loading Information label located on the
driver’s door pillar.
2. Get ready to drive for ten minutes, then,
on the Model S touchscreen, touch
Controls > Settings > Service & Reset >
Tire Pressure Monitor > Reset Sensors.
3. Follow the onscreen instructions.
Caution: Selecting the incorrect wheel
size may result in false tire pressure
warnings displaying on the
instrument panel. If a tire pressure
warning displays, exit the vehicle,
close the rear trunk and all doors,
wait for the touchscreen to go black,
then re-enter the vehicle and ensure
that the correct wheel size is selected
before touching Reset.
Replacing a Tire Sensor
If the Tire Pressure warning indicator displays
frequently, contact Tesla to determine if a tire
sensor needs to be replaced. Tire sensors must
be replaced by a Tesla service technician who
can perform a brief setup procedure. If a non-
Tesla service center repairs or replaces a tire,
the tire sensor will not work until Tesla
performs the setup procedure.
TPMS Malfunction
Model S has also been equipped with a TPMS
malfunction indicator to indicate when the
system is not operating properly.
The TPMS malfunction indicator is
combined with the tire pressure
indicator light. When the system
detects a malfunction, the indicator
flashes for approximately one minute
after Model S powers on, and then
remains continuously lit. This
sequence continues upon
subsequent vehicle start-ups as long
as the malfunction exists. When the
TPMS malfunction indicator is on, the
system might not be able to detect
or signal under- and over-inflated
tires as intended.
Tire Care and Maintenance
Maintenance 133
TPMS malfunctions can occur for a variety of
reasons, including installing replacement or
alternate tires or wheels that prevent the
TPMS from functioning properly. Always check
the TPMS malfunction indicator light after
replacing one or more tires or wheels on your
vehicle to ensure that the replacement tires or
wheels allow the TPMS to continue to function
properly.
Note: If a tire has been replaced or repaired
using a different tire sealant than the one
available from Tesla, and a low tire pressure is
detected, it is possible that the tire sensor has
been damaged. Contact Tesla to have the fault
repaired as soon as possible.
Tire Care and Maintenance
134 Model S Owner's Manual
Tire Repair Kit
Your Model S has no spare tire. Depending on
the legislations that apply to the region in
which you purchased Model S, a tire repair kit
may or may not be included. If a tire repair kit
was not provided in Model S upon delivery,
you can purchase one from Tesla.
The tire repair kit consists of a compressor
and a canister of tire sealant (enough to repair
one tire). When injected into a tire, the sealant
can penetrate a small puncture up to 6 mm to
form a temporary repair.
Note: For punctures larger than 6 mm, severe
tread damage, a damaged sidewall, ripped
tires or tires that have come off the rim, call
Roadside Assistance.
Warning: The tire repair kit is a temporary
repair only. You must repair or replace a
damaged tire as soon as possible.
Warning: Do not exceed 48 km/h when
driving with a tire that has been
temporarily repaired with sealant.
Warning: Follow all directions and
warnings on the tire repair kit before
starting a repair.
Caution: Do not drive on a deflated tire as
this can cause serious damage.
Tire Sealant Canister
The tire sealant provided in the Tesla tire
repair kit is approved for use with Model S and
is designed not to damage the TPMS (Tire
Pressure Monitoring System) sensors.
Therefore, you must replace it only with one of
the same type and capacity (see Replacing
the Sealant Canister on page 138). Tire
sealant canisters can be purchased from Tesla.
The tire sealant has an expiration date printed
on the outside of the canister. If the expiration
date has passed, the sealant might not work
as expected. Always replace an expired tire
sealant canister.
Warning: Do not use any tire sealant
other than the one available from Tesla.
Doing so could cause tire pressure
sensors to malfunction.
Warning: Always read and follow the
safety and handling instructions printed
on the sealant canister.
Warning: Keep tire sealant out of the
reach of children.
Warning: Tire sealant can be harmful if it
contacts the eyes or if swallowed or
inhaled. If the sealant comes into contact
with your eyes, immediately flush with
water and seek medical attention if
irritation persists. If swallowed, do not
induce vomiting and seek medical
assistance immediately. If inhaled, breathe
fresh air. Inhalation can cause drowsiness
and dizziness. If breathing is affected,
seek medical assistance immediately.
Temporary Tire Repair
Maintenance 135
Inflating with Sealant and Air
If you have a Tesla tire repair kit, follow these
steps to temporarily repair a small tire
puncture (less than 6 mm).
1. Stop Model S in a safe place away from
traffic and ask passengers to wait in a safe
area.
2. Turn on the hazard warning flashers to
alert other road users.
3. If possible, position the wheel with the
puncture at the bottom.
4. Detach the power supply connector from
the back of the compressor and plug it
into the 12V power socket located on the
front of center console.
5. Release the clear plastic hose from the tire
compressor.
6. Remove the red cap and screw the end of
the hose onto the tire’s valve.
7. Attach the sealant kit’s black air hose to
the sealant valve and press the lever down
to secure it in place.
8. Ensure the compressor is lying on a level
surface with the pressure gauge facing to
the side as shown in Step 5.
9. Turn on the compressor.
10. Inflate the tire to the recommended
pressure.
11. Turn off the compressor and disconnect
the hose from the tire’s valve. Wipe any
excess sealant from the tire valve and
wheel rim.
12. Immediately drive for 8 km to distribute
the sealant around the tire. Do not exceed
48 km/h.
13. Stop and check the tire’s pressure. If
necessary, inflate using the black air hose.
14. Have the tire repaired or replaced as soon
as possible.
15. Replace the tire repair sealant canister
(see Replacing the Sealant Canister on
page 138).
Temporary Tire Repair
136 Model S Owner's Manual
Inflating with Air Only
If you have a Tesla tire repair kit, follow these
steps to inflate a tire with air:
1. Detach the power supply connector from
the rear of the compressor and plug it into
the 12V power socket located in Model S
on the front of center console.
2. Release the black air hose from the
compressor.
3. Attach the air hose to the valve and press
the lever down to secure it in place.
4. Ensure the compressor is lying on a level
surface with the pressure gauge facing to
the side where you can read it.
5. To add air, turn on the compressor and
inflate until the desired pressure is
reached.
6. To release air, turn off the compressor,
then press and hold the red button until
the desired pressure is reached.
Note: For your convenience, the tire repair kit
includes a selection of adapters that allow you
to inflate other items. These adapters are
located in a compartment on the back of the
compressor.
Caution: To avoid overheating, do not use
the compressor continuously for more
than eight minutes. Allow the compressor
to cool for 15 minutes between uses.
Caution: The compressor runs slowly
when overheated from excessive use. Turn
it off and allow it to cool.
Temporary Tire Repair
Maintenance 137
Replacing the Sealant Canister
If you have a Tesla tire repair kit, you can
purchase additional or replacement canisters
of tire sealant from Tesla.
Follow these steps to replace the canister in
your Tesla tire repair kit:
1. Unwrap the clear hose from the
compressor. This hose is included with the
tire repair sealant canister.
2. Remove the canister cover by sliding it
upward to release it from the compressor.
3. Remove the canister.
4. Insert the new canister and replace the
cover.
Temporary Tire Repair
138 Model S Owner's Manual
Cleaning the Exterior
To prevent damage to the paint, immediately
remove corrosive substances (bird droppings,
tree resin, dead insects, tar spots, road salt,
industrial fallout, etc). Do not wait until
Model S is due for a complete wash. If
necessary, use denatured alcohol to remove
tar spots and stubborn grease stains, then
immediately wash the area with water and a
mild, non-detergent soap to remove the
alcohol.
Follow these steps when washing the exterior
of Model S:
1. Rinse Thoroughly
Before washing, flush grime and grit from
the bodywork using a hose. Flush away
accumulations of mud in areas where
debris easily collects (such as wheel
arches and panel seams). If salt has been
used on the highways (such as during
winter months), thoroughly rinse all traces
of road salt from the underside of the
vehicle.
2. Hand Wash
Hand wash Model S using a clean soft
cloth and cold or lukewarm water
containing a mild, good quality car
shampoo.
3. Rinse with Clean Water
After washing, rinse with clean water to
prevent soap from drying on the surfaces.
4. Dry Thoroughly and Clean Exterior Glass
After washing and rinsing, dry thoroughly
with a chamois.
Clean windows and mirrors using an
automotive glass cleaner. Do not scrape,
or use any abrasive cleaning fluid on glass
or mirrored surfaces.
Cautions for Exterior Cleaning
Caution: Do not use windshield treatment
fluids. Doing so can interfere with wiper
friction and cause a chattering sound.
Caution: Do not use hot water and
detergents.
Caution: In hot weather, do not wash in
direct sunlight.
Caution: If using a pressure washer,
maintain a distance of at least 30 cm
between the nozzle and the surface of
Model S. Keep the nozzle moving and do
not concentrate the water jet on any one
area.
Caution: Do not aim water hoses directly
at window, door or hood seals, or through
wheel apertures onto brake components.
Caution: Avoid using tight-napped or
rough cloths, such as washing mitts.
Caution: If washing in an automatic car
wash, use Touchless car washes only.
These car washes have no parts (brushes,
etc.) that touch the surfaces of Model S.
Using any other type of car wash could
cause damage that is not covered by the
warranty.
Caution: Do not use chemical based
wheel cleaners. These can damage the
finish on the wheels.
Caution: Avoid using a high pressure
power washer on the rear view camera or
parking sensors (if equipped) and do not
clean a sensor or camera lens with a
sharp or abrasive object that can scratch
or damage its surface.
Cleaning
Maintenance 139
Cleaning the Interior
Frequently inspect and clean the interior to
maintain its appearance and to prevent
premature wear. If possible, immediately wipe
up spills and remove marks. For general
cleaning, wipe interior surfaces using a soft
cloth (such as micro fiber) dampened with a
mixture of warm water and mild non-
detergent cleaner (test all cleaners on a
concealed area before use). To avoid streaks,
dry immediately with a soft lint-free cloth.
Interior Glass
Do not scrape, or use any abrasive cleaning
fluid on glass or mirrored surfaces. This can
damage the reflective surface of the mirror
and the heating elements in the rear window.
Airbags
Do not allow any substance to enter an airbag
cover. This could affect correct operation.
Dashboard and Plastic Surfaces
Do not polish the upper surfaces of the
dashboard. Polished surfaces are reflective
and could interfere with your driving view.
Leather Seats
Leather is prone to dye-transfer which can
cause discoloration, particularly on light
colored leather. White and tan leather is
coated with an anti-soiling treatment. Wipe
spills as soon as possible using a soft cloth
moistened with warm water and non-
detergent soap. Wipe gently in a circular
motion. Then wipe dry using a soft, lint-free
cloth. Using detergents or commercially
available leather cleaners and conditioners is
not recommended because they can discolor
or dry out the leather.
Polyurethane Seats
Wipe spills as soon as possible using a soft
cloth moistened with warm water and non-
detergent soap. Wipe gently in a circular
motion. After cleaning, allow the seats to air
dry.
Cloth Seats
Wipe spills as soon as possible using a soft
cloth moistened with warm water and non-
detergent soap. Wipe gently in a circular
motion. Then wipe dry using a soft, lint-free
cloth. Vacuum the seats as needed to remove
any loose dirt.
Carpets
Avoid over-wetting carpets. For heavily soiled
areas, use a diluted upholstery cleaner.
Seat Belts
Extend the belts to wipe. Do not use any type
of detergent or chemical cleaning agent.
Allow the belts to dry naturally while
extended, preferably away from direct
sunlight.
Touchscreen and Instrument Panel
Clean the touchscreen and instrument panel
using a soft lint-free cloth specifically
designed to clean monitors and displays. Do
not use cleaners (such as a glass cleaner) and
do not use a wet wipe or a dry statically-
charged cloth (such as a recently washed
microfiber). To wipe the touchscreen without
activating buttons and changing settings, you
can enable clean mode. Touch Controls >
Displays > Clean Mode. The display darkens to
make it easy to see dust and smudges.
Chrome and Metal Surfaces
Polish, abrasive cleaners or hard cloths can
damage the finish on chrome and metal
surfaces.
Cautions for Interior Cleaning
Warning: If you notice any damage on an
airbag or seat belt, contact Tesla
immediately.
Warning: Do not allow any water,
cleaners, or fabric to enter a seat belt
mechanism.
Caution: Using solvents (including
alcohol), bleach, citrus, naphtha, or
silicone-based products or additives on
interior components can cause damage.
Caution: Statically-charged materials can
cause damage to the touchscreen or
instrument panel.
Cleaning
140 Model S Owner's Manual
Polishing, Touch Up, and Body
Repair
To preserve the cosmetic appearance of the
body, you can occasionally treat the paint
surfaces with an approved polish containing:
• Very mild abrasive to remove surface
contamination without removing or
damaging the paint.
• Filling compounds that fill scratches and
reduce their visibility.
• Wax to provide a protective coating
between the paint and environmental
elements.
Regularly inspect the exterior paint for
damage. Treat minor chips and scratches
using a paint touch-up pen (available for
purchase from Tesla). Use the touch-up pen
after washing but before polishing or waxing.
Repair rock chips, fractures or scratches. Body
repairs should be performed only by a Tesla
approved body shop. Contact Tesla for a list of
approved body shops.
Caution: Do not use cutting pastes, color
restoration compounds, or polishes
containing harsh abrasives. These can
scour the surface and permanently
damage the paint.
Caution: Do not use chrome polish or
other abrasive cleaners.
Using a Car Cover
To preserve the cosmetic appearance of the
body when Model S is not being used, use a
genuine Tesla car cover. Car covers can be
purchased from Tesla.
Caution: Use only a Tesla-approved car
cover when Model S is plugged in. Using a
non-Tesla car cover can prevent the
Battery from being adequately cooled
during charging.
Floor Mats
To extend the life of your carpet and make
them easier to clean, use genuine Tesla floor
mats. Maintain mats by regularly cleaning
them and checking that they are properly
attached. Replace floor mats if they become
excessively worn.
Warning: To avoid potential interference
with a foot pedal, ensure that the driver’s
floor mat is securely fastened, and never
place an additional floor mat on top of it.
Floor mats should always rest on top of
the vehicle carpeting surface and not on
another floor mat or other covering.
Cleaning
Maintenance 141
Checking and Replacing Wiper
Blades
Caution: Wiper blades do not lock into a
lifted position. When cleaning or
replacing a wiper blade, lift the wiper arm
only a short distance from the windshield,
just far enough to access the blade. Do
not lift a wiper arm beyond its intended
position. Doing so can cause damage that
is not covered by the warranty.
To make wiper blades easy to access, turn off
the wipers, shift Model S into Park, then use
the touchscreen to move them to the service
position. Touch Controls > Settings > Service &
Reset > Service Mode > ON.
Note: Wipers automatically return to their
normal position when you shift Model S out of
Park.
Periodically check and clean the edge of the
wiper blade and check the rubber for cracks,
splits and roughness. If damaged, replace the
blade immediately to prevent damage to the
glass.
Contaminants on the windshield, or on the
wiper blades, can reduce the effectiveness of
the wiper blades. Contaminants include ice,
wax spray from car washes, washer fluid with
bug and/or water repellent, bird droppings,
tree sap, and other organic substances.
Follow these guidelines for cleaning:
• Clean the windshield using non-abrasive
glass cleaner.
• Lift the wiper arm a short distance away
from the windshield, just far enough to
access the wiper blade, then wipe the
blade clean using isopropyl (rubbing)
alcohol or washer fluid.
If the wipers remain ineffective after cleaning,
replace the wiper blades.
For optimum performance, replace wiper
blades at least once a year.
To replace wiper blades:
1. Turn off the wipers, shift Model S into
Park, then use the touchscreen to move
the wipers to the service position. Touch
Controls > Settings > Service & Reset >
Service Mode > ON.
Note: Wipers must be OFF to turn on
Service Mode.
2. Lift the wiper arm a short distance away
from the windshield, just far enough to
access the wiper blade.
3. Hold the wiper arm (the wiper arm does
not lock into a lifted position) and press
the locking tab while sliding the blade
down the arm.
4. Align the new blade on the wiper arm and
slide it toward the hooked end of the arm
until it locks into place.
5. Place the wiper arm against the
windshield.
If the problem persists with new blades, clean
the windshield and wiper blades by wiping
with a soft cloth or sponge moistened with
warm water and non-detergent soap. Then,
rinse the windshield and wiper blades with
clean water. The windshield is clean when
water beads do not form.
Caution: Only use cleaning products
approved for use on automotive glass and
rubber. Inappropriate products can cause
damage or smears, and create glare on
the windshield.
Caution: Only install replacement blades
that are identical to the original blades.
Using inappropriate blades can damage
the wiper system and affect the operation
of the rain sensor.
Cleaning Washer Jets
The position of the windshield washers is set
at the factory and should never need
adjusting.
If a windshield washer becomes blocked, use a
thin strand of wire to clear any blockages from
the nozzle.
Wiper Blades and Washer Jets
142 Model S Owner's Manual
Warning: Do not operate the washers
while cleaning Model S. Windshield
washer fluid can irritate eyes and skin.
Read and observe the washer fluid
manufacturer’s instructions.
Wiper Blades and Washer Jets
Maintenance 143
Removing the Maintenance Panel
To check fluid levels, remove the maintenance
panel:
1. Pull the rear edge of the maintenance
panel upward to release the five clips that
hold the panel in place.
2. Maneuver the maintenance panel toward
the windshield to remove.
Caution: The maintenance panel protects
the front trunk from water. When re-
attaching, make sure it is fully seated.
Checking Battery Coolant
If the quantity of fluid in the cooling system
drops below the recommended level, the
instrument panel displays a warning message.
Stop Model S as soon as safety permits and
contact Tesla.
Fluid Level Check
Tesla checks the Battery coolant level at the
regularly scheduled maintenance intervals. On
a single motor Model S, you can check it
yourself. To do so, park Model S on level
ground. When Model S is cool, remove the
maintenance panel (see Removing the
Maintenance Panel on page 144).
Check the fluid level visually by looking at the
outside marks on the side of the reservoir. DO
NOT REMOVE THE FILLER CAP AND DO NOT
ADD FLUID. Doing so can result in damage
not covered by the warranty.
The fluid level should be between the MIN and
the MAX marks. If you notice that the fluid
level has dropped significantly, contact Tesla
before using Model S.
Topping Up the Battery Coolant
Under no circumstances should you add
coolant. If the instrument panel warns you that
the fluid level is low, contact Tesla
immediately.
To maximize the performance and life of the
Battery, the cooling system uses a specific
type of G-48 ethylene-glycol coolant (HOAT).
Contact Tesla for more specific information
about the coolant.
Fluid Reservoirs
144 Model S Owner's Manual
Checking Brake Fluid
Warning: Contact Tesla immediately if you
notice increased movement of the brake
pedal or a significant loss of brake fluid.
Driving under these conditions can result
in extended stopping distances or
complete brake failure.
The Brake indicator on the
instrument panel alerts you if the
quantity of fluid in the brake
reservoir drops below the
recommended level. If it displays
while driving, stop as soon as safety
permits by gently applying the
brakes. Do not continue driving.
Contact Tesla immediately.
Fluid Level Check
Tesla checks the brake fluid level at the
regularly scheduled maintenance intervals. To
check it yourself, park Model S on level
ground. When Model S is cool, remove the
maintenance panel (see Removing the
Maintenance Panel on page 144).
Check the fluid level visually by looking at the
outside marks on the side of the reservoir
without removing the filler cap.
The brake fluid level should always be
between the MIN and the MAX marks.
Note: Although brake fluid level drops slightly
during normal use as a result of brake pad
wear, it should not drop below the MIN mark.
Topping Up the Brake Fluid
Do not top up your brake fluid. Tesla service
does this when you bring Model S in for
regular servicing. The following instructions
are provided for information purposes and
future reference only:
1. Clean the filler cap before removing to
prevent dirt from entering the reservoir.
2. Unscrew the cap and remove.
3. Top up the reservoir to the MAX mark
using brake fluid meeting DOT3
specifications.
4. Replace the filler cap.
Warning: Only use new fluid from a sealed
air-tight container. Never use previously
used fluid or fluid from a previously
opened container—fluid absorbs moisture
which decreases braking performance.
Warning: Brake fluid is highly toxic. Keep
containers sealed and out of the reach of
children. In the event of accidental
consumption, seek medical attention
immediately.
Caution: Brake fluid damages painted
surfaces. Immediately soak up any spills
with an absorbent cloth and wash the
area with a mixture of car shampoo and
water.
Fluid Reservoirs
Maintenance 145
Topping Up Washer Fluid
The only reservoir into which you can add
fluid is the washer fluid reservoir located
under the front trunk. When the level is low, a
message displays on the instrument panel.
Do not use formulated washer fluids that
contain water repellent or bug wash. These
fluids can cause streaking, smearing, and
squeaking or other noises.
Operate the washers periodically to check that
the nozzles are clear and properly directed.
To top up washer fluid:
1. Clean the filler cap before opening to
prevent dirt from entering the reservoir.
2. Open the filler cap.
3. Fill the reservoir until the fluid level is
visible just below the filler neck.
4. Replace the filler cap.
Note: Some national or local regulations
restrict the use of Volatile Organic
Compounds (VOCs). VOCs are commonly
used as antifreeze in washer fluid. Use a
washer fluid with limited VOC content only if it
provides adequate freeze resistance for all
climates in which you drive Model S.
Caution: Under no circumstances do you
need to inspect or top up other fluid
reservoirs. Two additional fluid reservoirs
are located next to the washer fluid, but
underneath the maintenance panel. In the
unlikely event that you see a message on
the instrument panel that one of these
fluid levels is low, stop Model S as soon as
safe to do so, and contact Tesla.
Caution: Do not spill washer fluid on body
panels. Doing so can cause damage. Wipe
up spills immediately and wash the
affected area with water.
Warning: In temperatures below 4° C, use
a washer fluid with antifreeze. In cold
weather, using a washer fluid without
antifreeze can impair visibility through
the windshield.
Fluid Reservoirs
146 Model S Owner's Manual
Jacking Procedure
Follow the steps below to lift Model S. Ensure
that any non-Tesla repair facility is aware of
these lifting points.
1. Position Model S centrally between the lift
posts.
2. If your Model S is equipped with Smart Air
Suspension, it automatically self-levels,
even when power is off. Use the
touchscreen to set the suspension as
follows:
• Touch Controls > Suspension.
• Press the brake pedal, then touch Very
High to maximize the height of the
suspension.
• Touch Jack to disable self-leveling.
When Jack mode is active,
Model S displays this indicator
light on the instrument panel,
along with a message telling
you that active suspension is
disabled.
3. Position the lift arm pads under the body
rails at the locations illustrated. DO NOT
position the lift arm pads under the
Battery.
4. Adjust the height and position of the lift
arm pads to ensure they are correctly
located.
5. With assistance, raise the lift, ensuring the
lift arm pads remain in their correct
positions.
Note: Jack mode cancels when Model S is
driven over 7 km/h.
Warning: If your Model S is equipped with
Smart Air Suspension, it automatically
self-levels, even when power is off. You
MUST disable this system by engaging
Jack mode before lifting or jacking. If you
do not disable Smart Air Suspension,
Model S can attempt to self-level, causing
serious damage, bodily injury, or death.
Warning: Never raise Model S when the
charge cable is connected, even if
charging is not in progress.
Warning: Do not work on an incorrectly
supported vehicle. Doing so can cause
serious damage, bodily injury, or death.
Caution: DO NOT lift from under the
Battery. Place the lift arm pads under the
body rails only. The locations illustrated
are the only approved lifting points for
Model S. Lifting at any other points can
cause damage. Damage caused by lifting
Model S is not covered by the warranty.
Jacking and Lifting
Maintenance 147
Parts, Accessories, and
Modifications
Use only genuine Tesla parts and accessories.
Tesla performs rigorous testing on parts to
ensure their suitability, safety, and reliability.
Purchase these parts from Tesla, where they
are professionally installed and where you can
receive expert advice about modifications to
Model S.
Tesla is unable to assess parts manufactured
by other distributors and therefore accepts no
responsibility if you use non-Tesla parts on
Model S.
Warning: Installing non-approved parts
and accessories, or performing non-
approved modifications, can affect the
performance of Model S and the safety of
its occupants. Any damage caused by
using or installing non-approved parts, or
by performing non-approved
modifications, is not covered by the
warranty.
Warning: Tesla does not accept liability
for death, personal injury or damage that
occurs if you use or install non-approved
accessories or make non-approved
modifications.
Body Repairs
If Model S is in a collision, contact Tesla to
ensure that it is repaired with genuine Tesla
parts. Tesla has selected and approved body
shops that meet strict requirements for
training, equipment, quality, and customer
satisfaction.
Some repair shops and insurance companies
might suggest using non-original equipment
or salvaged parts to save money. However,
these parts do not meet Tesla's high standards
for quality, fit and corrosion resistance. In
addition, non-original equipment and salvaged
parts (and any damage or failures they might
cause) are not covered by the warranty.
Using RFID Transponders
Model S has a metallic coating on the
windshield that can interfere with signals sent
from RFID transponders used by many toll
systems. Most Model S vehicles, depending on
date of manufacture, include an area in the
windshield in which the metallic coating is cut
out to accommodate transponders. This area,
located on the right side of the rear view
mirror, is the best location to mount an
transponder. If your vehicle does not include
this cut out area, mount the transponder to
the rear window.
Note: You can also attach a weather-proof
transponder on the front license plate or
behind the nose cone (for details on how to
remove the nose cone, see Instructions for
Transporters on page 161).
Parts and Accessories
148 Model S Owner's Manual
Vehicle Identification Number
You can find the VIN at the following
locations:
• Touch the Tesla "T" at the top center of
the touchscreen. The VIN displays on the
popup window.
• Stamped on a plate located at the top of
the dashboard. Can be seen by looking
through the windshield.
• Printed on the Identification Plate, located
on the driver’s side door pillar. Can be
seen when the driver’s door is open.
• Stamped on the chassis:
• On vehicles manufactured as of
August 2015, the VIN can be seen by
removing the sill panel on the driver's
door by gently prying it upward using
a flat-bladed tool.
Caution: Removing the sill panel
to view the VIN is not
recommended because damage
is likely to occur. The panel is held
in place with fragile clips that
break easily. Damage caused by
removing the sill panel is not
covered by the warranty.
Identification Labels
Specifications 149
Load Capacity Labeling
It is important to understand how much
weight your Model S can safely carry. This
weight is called the vehicle capacity weight
and includes the weight of all occupants,
cargo and any additional equipment added to
your Model S since it was manufactured.
There are two labels attached to Model S that
state how much weight it can safely carry.
These labels are located on the center door
pillar and are visible when the front door is
open:
1. Tire and Loading Information label
2. Identification Plate
Warning: Overloading Model S has an
adverse effect on braking and handling,
which can compromise your safety or
damage Model S.
Caution: Never load more than 136 kg in
the front trunk. Doing so can cause
damage.
Caution: Never store large amounts of
liquid in Model S. A significant spill can
cause electrical components to
malfunction.
Tire and Loading Information Label
The Tire and Loading Information label
provides:
• The maximum number of occupant
seating positions.
• The maximum vehicle capacity weight.
• The size of the original tires.
• The cold inflation pressures for the
original front and rear tires. These
pressures are recommended to optimize
ride and handling characteristics.
Never change this label, even if you use
different tires in the future.
Note: If Model S is loaded to its full capacity,
double check all tires to ensure they are
inflated to their recommended pressure levels.
Identification Plate
In addition to the VIN, the Identification Plate
provides certification that Model S complies
with the Motor Vehicle Standards Act.
Caution: To prevent damage, never load
Model S so that it is heavier than GVWR
or exceeds the individual GAWR weights.
Calculating Load Limits
1. Locate the statement “The combined
weight of occupants and cargo should
never exceed XXX kg or XXX lbs” on the
“Tire and Loading Information” label.
2. Determine the combined weight of all
occupants that will ride in the vehicle.
3. Subtract the combined weight of the
occupants from XXX kg or XXX lbs (see
Step 1).
Vehicle Loading
150 Model S Owner's Manual
4. The resulting figure equals the available
cargo load capacity. For example, if the
“XXX” amount equals 1400 lbs (635 kg)
and there will be five 150 lb (68 kg)
passengers in the vehicle, the amount of
available cargo capacity is 650 lbs
(1400 ‑ 750 (5 x 150) = 650 lbs) or 295 kg
(635 ‑ 340 (5 x 68) = 295 kg).
5. Determine the combined cargo weight
being loaded on the vehicle. That weight
must not exceed the available cargo load
capacity calculated in Step 4.
Warning: Trunks are the preferred places
to carry objects. In an accident, or during
hard braking and sharp turns, loose items
in the cabin could injure occupants.
Example Load Limit Calculations
How much cargo Model S can carry depends
on the number and weight of passengers. The
following calculated load limit examples
assume passengers weigh 150 lbs (68 kg). If
passengers weigh more or less, available
cargo weight decreases or increases
respectively.
Driver and one passenger
Description Total
Vehicle capacity weight 954 lbs
(433 kg)
Subtract occupant weight
(2 x 150 lbs/68 kg)
300 lbs
(136 kg)
Available cargo weight 654 lbs
(297 kg)
Driver and four passengers
Description Total
Vehicle capacity weight 954 lbs
(433 kg)
Subtract occupant weight (5 x
150 lbs/68 kg)
750 lbs
(340 kg)
Available cargo weight 204 lbs
(93 kg)
The cargo weight should be distributed
between the front and rear trunks.
Caution: Do not exceed the maximum
front trunk load weight of 136 kg.
Towing a Trailer
Warning: Do not use Model S for towing
purposes. Model S does not support a
trailer hitch. Installing one could cause
damage and increase the risk of an
accident.
Caution: Using Model S for towing may
void the warranty.
Roof Racks
If Model S is equipped with the all glass
panoramic roof, you can carry up to 75 kg
using a Tesla-approved roof rack (see Parts
and Accessories on page 148). A Model S
equipped with a solid aluminum roof is
incompatible with roof racks.
Caution: Damage caused by roof racks is
not covered by the warranty.
Caution: Do not use roof racks, or place
any load, on the roof of a Model S that is
equipped with a solid aluminum roof.
Doing so can cause significant damage.
Vehicle Loading
Specifications 151
Exterior Dimensions
A Overall Length 196 in 4,979 mm
B
Overall Width (including mirrors)
Overall Width (excluding mirrors)
86.2 in
77.3 in
2,189 mm
1,964 mm
C Overall Height 56.9 in* 1,445 mm*
D Wheel Base 116.5 in 2,960 mm
E Overhang - Front 36.9 in 937 mm
F Overhang - Rear 42.55 in 1,081 mm
G Ground Clearance - Coil
Suspension (single motor vehicle)
5.5 in* 139.7 mm*
G Ground Clearance - Coil
Suspension (dual motor vehicle)
5.3 in* 134.6 mm*
G Ground Clearance - Air Suspension 4.6 - 6.3 in 116.8 - 160 mm
H
Track - Front
Track - Rear
65.4 in
66.9 in
1,662 mm
1,700 mm
*Values are approximate. The dimensions can vary depending on vehicle configuration and
various other factors.
Interior Dimensions
Head Room
Front
Rear
38.8 in
35.3 in
986 mm
897 mm
Leg Room
Front
Rear
42.7 in
35.4 in
1085 mm
899 mm
Shoulder Room
Front
Rear
57.7 in
55 in
1466 mm
1397 mm
Hip Room
Front
Rear
55 in
54.7 in
1397 mm
1389 mm
Dimensions and Weights
152 Model S Owner's Manual
Cargo Volume
Total cargo volume (rear seats not
folded) 28.4 cu ft 804.2 L
Rear cargo volume 26.3 cu ft 744.7 L
Rear cargo volume (with seats
folded down) 58.1 cu ft 1645.2 L
Front cargo volume 2.1 cu ft 59.5 L
Weights
Curb Weight* - 60/70/75 4469 lbs 2027 kg
Curb Weight* - 60D/70D/75D 4647 lbs 2108 kg
Curb Weight* - 90D 4736 lbs 2148 kg
Curb Weight* - P90D 4841 lbs 2196 kg
Curb Weight* - P100D 4941 lbs 2241 kg
GVWR** - 60/70/75 5710 lbs 2590 kg
GVWR** - 60D/70D/75D 5732 lbs 2600 kg
GVWR** - 90D 5820 lbs 2640 kg
GVWR** - P90D 5886 lbs 2670 kg
GVWR** - P100D 5997 lbs 2720 kg
Gross Axle Weight Rating- Front
(non-Performance vehicle) 2813 lbs 1276 kg
Gross Axle Weight Rating- Front
(P85D/P90D) 2756 lbs 1250 kg
Gross Axle Weight Rating- Front
(P100D) 2866 lbs 1300 kg
Gross Axle Weight Rating - Rear: 19"
wheels 3307 lbs 1500 kg
Gross Axle Weight Rating - Rear: 21"
wheels 3131 lbs 1420 kg
Trailer Towing Not permissible
*Curb Weight = weight of the vehicle with correct fluid levels, no occupants and no cargo
**GVWR = Gross Vehicle Weight Rating
Dimensions and Weights
Specifications 153
Motor
Type AC induction motor, liquid-cooled, with
variable frequency drive
Rating 320 Volts
Maximum speed of large motors:
- rear motor on all single motor vehicles
- rear motor on Performance dual-motor vehicles
16000 rpm
Maximum speed of small motors:
- front motor on all dual-motor vehicles
- rear motor on non-Performance dual-motor
vehicles
18000 rpm
Maximum net power* and engine speed of large
motors
Base: 285 kW @ 6850 rpm
Performance: 375 kW @ 5950 rpm
Maximum net power* and engine speed of small
motors
Performance: 193 kW @ 6100 rpm
Maximum torque of large motors Base: 440 Nm
Performance: 650 Nm
Maximum torque of small motors Base: 250 Nm
Performance: 330 Nm
*Tested in accordance with ECE R85
Transmission
Type Single speed fixed gear
Overall Final Drive Ratio Small motor: 9.34:1
Large motor: 9.73:1
Reverse Gear Reverse direction of motor, limited to
24 km/h
Steering
Type Rack and pinion with electronic power
steering
Variable ratio and speed sensitive
Number of turns lock to lock 2.45
Turning Circle (curb to curb) 12.4 metres
Subsystems
154 Model S Owner's Manual
Brakes
Type
4-wheel anti-lock braking system (ABS)
with Electronic Brake Force Distribution,
Integrated Advanced Stability Control and
Electronic Accelerator pedal actuated
regenerative braking system
Calipers Four piston fixed
Rotor Diameters (ventilated)
Front: 13.98”/355 mm
Rear: 14.37”/365 mm
Front Rotor thickness
New: 1.26”/32 mm
Service limit: 1.18”/30 mm
Rear Rotor thickness
New: 1.10”/28 mm
Service limit: 1.02”/26 mm
Front Brake Pad Thickness (excluding back plate)
New: 0.354”/9.0 mm
Service limit: 0.078”/2 mm
Rear Brake Pad Thickness (excluding back plate)
New: 0.315”/8.0 mm
Service limit: 0.078”/2 mm
Electronic Parking Brake (EPB) Pad Thickness
(excluding back plate). Electronic calipers self-
adjust for pad wear.
New: 0.216”/5.5 mm
Service limit: 0.039”/1 mm
Parking brake Electrically actuated parking brake
calipers
Suspension
Front Independent, double wishbone, air spring
or coil spring/telescopic damper, sway bar
Rear Independent, multi-link, air spring or coil
spring/telescopic damper, sway bar (air
suspension vehicles only)
Battery - 12V
Rating 33 amp-hr or higher
Voltage and Polarity 12V negative (-) ground
Subsystems
Specifications 155
Battery - High Voltage
Type Liquid-cooled lithium ion (Li-ion)
Rating 60, 70, 75, 85, 90, or 100 kWh (at
beginning of life)
Nominal Voltage - 85, 90, and 100 kWh
Nominal Voltage - 60, 70, 75 kWh
350 V DC
300 V DC
Temperature Range Do not expose Model S to ambient
temperatures above 60° C or below
-30° C for more than 24 hours at a time.
Subsystems
156 Model S Owner's Manual
Wheel Specifications
Wheel Type Location Size Offset
19"
Front 8.0J x 19 1.575"
40 mm
Rear 8.0J x 19 1.575"
40 mm
21" - Silver (standard) Front 8.5J x 21 1.575"
40 mm
21" - Grey (standard) Rear 8.5J x 21 1.575"
40 mm
21" - Silver and Grey (optional) Performance
Plus vehicles Rear 9.0J x 21 1.575"
40 mm
Road Wheel Nut Torque 129 lb. ft (175 Nm)
Note: For instructions on how to jack/lift Model S, see Jacking and Lifting on page 147.
Tire Specifications
Tire Type Location Size
19" wheels All P245/45R19
21" wheels Front
Rear
P245/35R21
P265/35R21*
*On a P85D and P90D Model S, the width of the rear tires may vary depending on date of
manufacture. Some vehicles may be equipped with P245/35R21 tires on both front and rear.
Tire pressures vary depending on the type of tires fitted. Refer to the tire pressures printed on
the Tire and Loading Information label. This label is located on the center door pillar and is
visible when the driver’s door is open (see Maintaining Tire Pressures on page 129).
Winter tires can be purchased from a Tesla store.
Wheels and Tires
Specifications 157
Understanding Tire Markings
Laws require tire manufacturers to place standardized information on the sidewall of all tires. This
information identifies and describes the fundamental characteristics of the tire.
Wheels and Tires
158 Model S Owner's Manual
1 Tire category. P indicates that the tire is for passenger vehicles.
2 Tire width. This 3-digit number is the width (in millimeters) of the tire from sidewall
edge to sidewall edge.
3 Aspect ratio. This 2-digit number is the sidewall height as a percentage of the tread
width. So, if the tread width is 205 mm, and the aspect ratio is 50, the sidewall height is
102 mm.
4 Tire construction. R indicates that the tire is of Radial ply construction.
5 Wheel diameter. This 2-digit number is the diameter of the wheel rim in inches.
6 Load index. This 2 or 3-digit number is the weight each tire can support. This number is
not always shown.
7 Speed rating. When stated, indicates the maximum speed (in mph) at which the tire
can be used for extended periods. Q=99 mph (160 km/h), R=106 mph (170 km/h),
S=112 mph (180 km/h), T=118 mph (190 km/h), U=124 mph (200 km/h), H=130 mph
(210 km/h), V=149 mph (240 km/h), W=168 mph (270 km/h), Y=186 mph (300 km/h).
8 Tire composition and materials. The number of plies in both the tread area and the
sidewall area indicates how many layers of rubber coated material make up the
structure of the tire. Information is also provided on the type of materials used.
9 Maximum tire load. The maximum load which can be carried by the tire.
10 Maximum permissible inflation pressure. This pressure should not be used for normal
driving.
11 U.S. DOT Tire Identification Number (TIN). Begins with the letters DOT and indicates
that the tire meets all federal standards. The next 2 digits/letters represent the plant
code where it was manufactured, and the last 4 digits represent the week and year of
manufacture. For example, the number 1712 is used to represent the 17th week of 2012.
The other numbers are marketing codes used at the manufacturer’s discretion. This
information can be used to contact consumers if a tire defect requires a recall.
12 Treadwear grade. This number indicates the tire’s wear rate. The higher the treadwear
number is, the longer it should take for the tread to wear down. A tire rated at 400, for
example, lasts twice as long as a tire rated at 200.
13 Traction grade. Indicates a tire’s ability to stop on wet roads. A higher graded tire
should allow you to stop your vehicle in a shorter distance than a tire with a lower
grade. Traction is graded from highest to lowest as AA, A, B, and C.
14 Temperature grade. The tire’s resistance to heat is grade A, B, or C, with A indicating
the greatest resistance. This grading is provided for a correctly inflated tire, which is
being used within its speed and loading limits.
Wheels and Tires
Specifications 159
Tesla Roadside Assistance is available to you, 24 hours a day, 365 days a year, for the duration of
your warranty period.
To contact Roadside Assistance, call:
1800 64 6952
Advise the representative of the vehicle identification number (VIN), license plate number,
mileage, your location, and the nature of the problem. The VIN is on the upper dashboard on the
driver’s side of your vehicle and is visible through the windshield.
It is your responsibility to provide vehicle transporters with instructions on how to transport
Model S (see Instructions for Transporters on page 161).
Contacting Roadside Assistance
160 Model S Owner's Manual
Use a Flatbed Only
Use a flatbed trailer only, unless otherwise
specified by Tesla. Do not transport Model S
with the tires directly on the ground.
Caution: Damage caused by transporting
is not covered by the warranty.
Caution: To transport Model S, follow the
instructions exactly as described next.
Disable Self-Leveling (air
suspension vehicles only)
If Model S is equipped with Smart Air
Suspension, it automatically self-levels, even
when power is off. To prevent damage, you
must activate Jack mode to disable self-
leveling:
1. Touch Controls > Suspension on the
touchscreen.
2. Press the brake pedal, then touch Very
High to maximize height.
3. Touch Jack.
When Jack mode is active,
Model S displays this indicator
light on the instrument panel,
along with a message telling you
that active suspension is
disabled.
Note: Jack mode cancels when Model S is
driven over 7 km/h.
Warning: Failure to activate Jack mode on
a Model S equipped with Smart Air
Suspension can result in the vehicle
becoming loose during transport, which
may cause significant damage.
Activate Tow Mode
Model S may automatically shift into Park
when it detects the driver leaving the vehicle,
even if it has previously been shifted into
Neutral. To keep Model S in Neutral (which
disengages the parking brake), you must use
the touchscreen to activate Tow mode:
1. Shift into Park.
2. Press the brake pedal, then on the
touchscreen, touch Controls > Settings >
Service & Reset > Tow Mode.
When Tow mode is active, Model S
displays this indicator light on the
instrument panel, along with a
message telling you that Model S is
free-rolling.
Note: Tow mode cancels when Model S is
shifted into Park.
Caution: If the electrical system is not
working, and you therefore cannot release
the electric parking brake, attempt to
quick start the 12V battery. For
instructions, call Tesla. If a situation
occurs where you cannot disengage the
parking brake, use tire skids or transport
Model S for the shortest possible distance
using wheeled dollies. Before doing so,
always check the dolly manufacturer’s
specifications and recommended load
capacity.
Instructions for Transporters
Roadside Assistance 161
Connect the Towing Eye
1. Locate the towing eye in the front trunk.
2. Remove the tow hook cover by inserting a
small flat screwdriver into the slot located
along the top of the cover, then prying
gently to release the cover from the top
snap.
3. Insert the towing eye.
Fully insert the towing eye into the
opening on the right side, then turn it
counter-clockwise until securely fastened.
4. Attach the winch cable to the towing eye.
Caution: Before pulling, make sure the
towing eye is securely tightened.
Pull Onto the Trailer and Secure the
Wheels
Secure wheels using the eight-point tie-down
method with basket straps or tie-down straps:
• Ensure any metal parts on the tie-down
straps do not contact painted surfaces or
the face of the wheels.
• Do not place tie-down straps over body
panels or through the wheels.
Caution: Attaching tie-down straps to the
chassis, suspension or other parts of the
vehicle's body may cause damage.
Caution: To prevent damage, do not
transport Model S with the tires directly
on the ground.
Instructions for Transporters
162 Model S Owner's Manual
Illustrations
Illustrations are provided for demonstration
purposes only. Depending on vehicle options,
software version, region of purchase, and
specific vehicle settings, your Model S may
appear slightly different.
Although the owner information is applicable
to both right-hand drive and left-hand drive
vehicles, many illustrations show only left-
hand drive vehicles. However, the essential
information that the illustrations are providing
is correct.
Errors or Inaccuracies
All specifications and descriptions are known
to be accurate at time of publishing. However,
because continuous improvement is a goal at
Tesla, we reserve the right to make product
modifications at any time. To communicate
any inaccuracies or omissions, or to provide
general feedback or suggestions regarding the
quality of this owner information, send an
email to:
ownersmanualfeedback@teslamotors.com
Location of Components
The owner information may specify the
location of a component as being on the left
or right side of the vehicle. As shown here, left
(1) and right (2) represent the side of the
vehicle when sitting inside Model S in a front-
facing seat.
Document Applicability
Owner information is updated on a regular
basis to reflect updates to your Model S.
However, in some cases, recently released
features may not be described. To display
information about recently released features,
view the Release Notes on the Model S
touchscreen. Release Notes are displayed on
the touchscreen after a software update, and
can be displayed at any time by touching the
Tesla "T" at the top center of the touchscreen,
then touching the Release Notes link. If
information related to how to use the Model S
touchscreen conflicts with information in the
Release Notes, the Release Notes take
precedence.
About this Owner Information
Consumer Information 163
Copyrights and Trademarks
All information in this document and all
Model S
®
 software is subject to copyright and
other intellectual property rights of Tesla
Motors, Inc. and its licensors. This material
may not be modified, reproduced or copied, in
whole or in part, without the prior written
permission of Tesla Motors, Inc. and its
licensors. Additional information is available
upon request. Tesla uses software created by
the Open Source community. Please visit
Tesla’s Open Source software website at
www.teslamotors.com/opensource. The
following are trademarks or registered
trademarks of Tesla Motors, Inc. in the United
States and other countries:
All other trademarks contained in this
document are the property of their respective
owners and their use herein does not imply
sponsorship or endorsement of their products
or services. The unauthorized use of any
trademark displayed in this document or on
the vehicle is strictly prohibited.
About this Owner Information
164 Model S Owner's Manual
Vehicle Telematics/Data Recorders
This vehicle is equipped with electronic
modules that monitor and record data from
various vehicle systems, including the motor,
Battery, braking and electrical systems. The
electronic modules record information about
various driving and vehicle conditions,
including braking, acceleration, trip and other
related information regarding your vehicle.
These modules also record information about
the vehicle’s features such as charging events
and status, the enabling/disabling of various
systems, diagnostic trouble codes, VIN, speed,
direction and location.
The data is stored by the vehicle and may be
accessed, used and stored by Tesla service
technicians during vehicle servicing or
periodically transmitted to Tesla wirelessly
through the vehicle’s telematics system. This
data may be used by Tesla for various
purposes, including, but not limited to:
providing you with Tesla telematics services;
troubleshooting; evaluation of your vehicle’s
quality, functionality and performance;
analysis and research by Tesla and its partners
for the improvement and design of our
vehicles and systems; and as otherwise may
be required by law. In servicing your vehicle,
we can potentially resolve issues remotely
simply by reviewing your vehicle’s data log.
Tesla’s telematics system wirelessly transmits
vehicle information to Tesla on a periodic
basis. The data is used as described above and
helps ensure the proper maintenance of your
vehicle. Additional Model S features may use
your vehicle’s telematics system and the
information provided, including features such
as charging reminders, software updates, and
remote access to, and control of, various
systems of your vehicle.
Tesla does not disclose the data recorded in
your vehicle to any third party except when:
• An agreement or consent from the
vehicle’s owner (or the leasing company
for a leased vehicle) is obtained.
• Officially requested by the police or other
authorities.
• Used as a defense for Tesla in a lawsuit.
• Ordered by a court of law.
• Used for research purposes without
disclosing details of the vehicle owner or
identification information.
• Disclosed to a Tesla affiliated company,
including their successors or assigns, or
our information systems and data
management providers.
In addition, Tesla does not disclose the data
recorded to an owner unless it pertains to a
non-warranty repair service and in this case,
will disclose only the data that is related to the
repair.
Quality Control
You might notice a few km on the odometer
when you take delivery of your Model S. This is
a result of a comprehensive testing process
that ensures the quality of your Model S.
The testing process includes extensive
inspections during and after production. The
final inspection takes place at Tesla Motors
and includes a road test conducted by a
technician.
Disclaimers
Consumer Information 165
Contacting Tesla
For detailed information about your Model S,
go to www.teslamotors.com, click the
MY TESLA link, then enter your login
credentials (or sign up to get these
credentials).
If you have any questions or concerns about
your Model S, call Tesla. To find the number for
your region, go to www.teslamotors.com, then
view contact information.
Note: You can also use voice commands to
provide feedback to Tesla. Say "Note",
"Report", "Bug note", or "Bug report" followed
by your brief comments. Model S takes a
snapshot of its systems, including screen
captures of the touchscreen and instrument
panel. Tesla periodically reviews these notes
and uses them to continue improving Model S.
For details, refer to the Owner's Manual. See 
Using Voice Commands on page 35.
Reporting Safety Defects
166 Model S Owner's Manual
Key and Passive Unlocking System
FCC Certification
Model
Number
Mfr MHz Tested
For
A-0749G02 Pektron 315 USA
Canada
Taiwan
The devices listed above comply with Part 15
of the FCC rules. Operation is subject to the
following two conditions:
1. This device may not cause harmful
interference, and
2. This device must accept any interference
received, including interference that may
cause undesired operation.
Changes or modifications not expressly
approved by Tesla could void the user's
authority to operate the equipment.
IC Certification
The following device is used in vehicles in
Canada:
• Keyfob Model Number: A-0749G02
(315 MHz)
• Keyfob Manufacturer: Pektron
Per IC 10176A-002, this device complies with
Industry Canada licence-exempt RSS
standard(s). Operation is subject to the
following two conditions:
1. This device may not cause harmful
interference, and
2. This device must accept any interference
received, including interference that may
cause undesired operation.
MIC Certification
Model
Number
Mfr MHz Tested
For
A-0749G04 Pektron 315 Japan
CE Certification
Model # Mfr MHz Tested
For
A-0749G01 Pektron 433 Europe
Australia
New
Zealand
Singapore
Malaysia
A-0749G05 Pektron 433 China
Hong
Kong
The devices listed above comply with CE
standards. Operation is subject to the
following two conditions:
1. This device may not cause harmful
interference, and
2. This device must accept any interference
received, including interference that may
cause undesired operation.
Changes or modifications not expressly
approved by Tesla could void the user's
authority to operate the equipment.
NCC Certification
• Keyfob Model Numbers: A-0749G01
(433 MHz) and A-0749G02 (315 MHz)
• Keyfob Manufacturer: Pektron
According to NCC low-power radio wave
radiation rate of motor management
measures:
Article XII of the type certified by the low
power radio, non-licensed, company, firm or
user is not allowed to change the frequency,
increase the power or change the
characteristics of the original design and
function.
Declarations of Conformity
Consumer Information 167
Article XIV: The use of low-power radio-
frequency devices shall not influence aircraft
security and interfere with legal
communications; interference phenomenon
discovered over time, should be immediately
suspended, and improved to no interference
before use can continue. Legal
communications, referring to the provisions of
the Telecommunications Act of radio
communications operations. Low-power radio
communications shall tolerate radio wave
interference from radiated devices, legal or
industrial, scientific and medical.
Device Approval - Australia
Media Control Unit
Device Approval - Australia
Tire Pressure Monitoring System
FCC IDs: TZSTPMS201, Z9F-201FS43X
IC ID: 11852A-201FS4X
The tire pressure monitoring system (TPMS)
complies with Part 15 of the FCC rules and
RSS-210 of Industry Canada. Operation is
subject to the following two conditions:
1. This device may not cause harmful
interference, and
2. This device must accept any interference
received, including interference that may
cause undesired operation.
Changes or modifications not expressly
approved by Tesla could void the user's
authority to operate the equipment.
Radio Frequency Information
This equipment has been tested and found to
comply with the limits for a Class B digital
device, pursuant to Part 15 of the FCC Rules.
These limits are designed to provide
reasonable protection against harmful
interference in a residential installation. This
equipment generates, uses and can radiate
radio frequency energy and, if not installed
and used in accordance with the instructions,
may cause harmful interference to radio
communications. However, there is no
guarantee that interference will not occur in a
particular installation. If this equipment does
cause harmful interference to radio or
television reception, which can be determined
by turning the equipment off and on, the user
is encouraged to try to correct the
interference by one or more of the following
measures:
• Reorient or relocate the receiving antenna.
• Increase the separation between the
equipment and receiver.
• Connect the equipment into an outlet on a
circuit different from that to which the
receiver is connected.
• Consult the dealer or an experienced
radio/TV technician for help.
Declarations of Conformity
168 Model S Owner's Manual
A
ABS (Anti-lock Braking System) 51
Acceleration (dual-motor) 90
access panel, removing 144
accessories
installing 148
plugging into power socket 106
adaptive headlights 48
air circulation 98
air conditioning 97
air distribution 98
air filter 100
air suspension 102
air vents 100
airbag, front passenger, disabling 30
airbags 28
alarm 115
all-season tires 132
always connected, setting 59
anti-lock braking (ABS) 51
audio
playing files 103
steering wheel buttons 34
volume control 103
Auto High Beam 48
Auto Lane Change 73
auto-raising suspension 101
automatic emergency braking 81
Autopark 75
Autopilot 62
Autosteer 70
average range 59
B
backup camera 61
battery (12V)
complete discharge 121
specifications 155
Battery (high voltage)
care of 121
coolant 144
specifications 156
temperature limits 121
battery (key), replacing 5
blind spot warning 79
Bluetooth
devices, playing audio files from 105
general information 107
phone, pairing and using 107
body repairs 148
body touch up 141
brake fluid replacement 128
brakes
automatic in emergencies 81
fluid level 145
overview of 51
brakes (continued)
specifications 155
brightness of displays 93
C
Cabin Overheat Protection setting 93
cabin temperature control 97
Calendar app 113
camera (rear view) 61
car cover 141
car washes 139
cargo volume 153
carpets, cleaning 140
CE certifications 167
CHAdeMO 120
chains 132
change of ownership 96
charge port 122
charge port light 125
charging
charge settings 126
components and equipment 119
instructions 122
public charging stations 120
scheduling 126
status of 127
charging locations, finding 110
child protection
disabling liftgate and rear door handles 7
disabling rear window switches 9
child seats
disabling front passenger airbag 30
installing and using 22
cleaning 139
climate controls 97
Cold Weather controls 90
collision avoidance assist 81
console
12V power socket 106
cup holders 16
USB ports 106
consumption chart 59
contact information
roadside assistance 160
coolant
Battery, checking level of 144
Battery, replacement interval 128
copyrights 163, 164
Creep 90
cruise control 64
cup holders 16
D
dashboard overview 2
data recording 165
Index
Index 169
day mode 93
declarations of conformity 167
delivery mileage 165
devices
Bluetooth, playing audio files 105
connecting 106
playing audio files from 105
dimensions 152
display brightness 93
dome (map) lights 45
door handles 6
door labels 150
Door Unlock Mode 6
doors 4
doors, opening 4
Drive gear 39
drive-away locking 7
driver
profiles 32
seat adjustment 17
driver assistance
Auto Lane Change 73
automatic emergency braking 81
Autopark 75
Autosteer 70
blind spot warning 79
collision avoidance assist 81
forward collision warning 81
overtake acceleration 64
overview 62
settings for 93
side collision avoidance 79
side collision warning 79
staying inside lane markings 79
Traffic-Aware Cruise Control 64
driving
seating position 17
starting 38
tips to maximize range 59
E
electric parking brake 52
emergency flashers 49
emergency rear door opening 8
energy
gained from regenerative braking 52
range information 40
energy & charging setting 93
Energy app 59
energy saving mode 59
Erase & Reset 96
event data recording 165
exterior
car cover 141
cleaning 139
dimensions 152
lights 45
exterior (continued)
overview 3
polishing, touch up, & repair 141
F
factory defaults, restoring 96
factory reset 96
fan speed, interior 98
favorite destinations 111
Favorites 109
Favorites (Media Player) 105
FCC certifications 167
features, downloading new 117
ferries, avoiding 110
firmware (software) updates 117
flash drives, playing audio files from 105
flashers, warning 49
flat tire repair 135
floor mats 141
fluids
replacement intervals 128
reservoirs, checking 144
fog lights 45
forward collision warning 81
front passenger detection 30
front trunk 12
G
GAWR 150
gears 39
glove box 14
Gross Axle Weight Rating 150
Gross Vehicle Weight Rating 150
ground clearance 152
GVWR 150
H
hazard warning flashers 49
head supports 18
headlights
adaptive 48
after exit 48
high beams 48
heated wipers 50
heating 97
height adjustments (suspension)
auto-raising 101
automatic and manual settings 102
disabling (Jack mode) 102
high beam headlights 48
high voltage
Battery specifications 156
components 119
Index
170 Model S Owner's Manual
high voltage (continued)
safety 128
hills, stopping on 56
hitches 151
Home location 111
hood 12
horn 34, 36
I
IC certifications 167
identification labels 149
Insane setting (dual-motor) 90
instant range 59
instrument panel
charging status 127
cleaning 140
overview of 40
interior
cleaning 140
dimensions 152
lights 45
overview 2
temperature control 97
Internet radio 104
intrusion detection 115
ISOFIX child seats, installing 26
J
J1772 120
Jack mode 102
jacking 147
K
key
FCC and IC certifications 167
how to use 4
key not inside 38
ordering extras 5
replacing battery 5
keyless entry 4
L
label
Statutory Plate 150
Tire and Loading Information 150
lane assist 79
lane change flash 49
lane change, automatic 73
lane departure warning 79
language setting 93
Launch Mode 57
liftgate
adjust opening height 10
opening 10
lifting 147
lights
adaptive headlights 48
hazard warning 49
headlights after exit 48
turn signals 49
load limits 150
location-based suspension 101
locking and unlocking doors 4
Ludicrous setting (dual-motor) 90
lumbar support 17
M
maintenance
brake fluid, checking 145
cleaning 139
daily and monthly checks 128
fluid replacement intervals 128
panel, removing 144
replacing wiper blades 142
service intervals 128
tires 129
washer fluid, topping up 146
washer jets, cleaning 142
map updates 112
maps 109
mats 141
Max Battery Power 90
media 103
mileage upon delivery 165
mirrors 37
mobile app 118
Mobile Connector
description 120
using 122
modifications 148
motor specifications 154
N
naming 95
navigation 109
NCC certifications 167
Neutral gear 39
night mode 93
nose cone, removing 162
O
odometer 58
overhang dimensions 152
overtake acceleration 64
Index
Index 171
Owner Information, about 163, 164
P
Park Assist 54
Park gear 39
parking brake 52
parking, automatic 75
parts replacement 148
personal data, erasing 96
phone
steering wheel buttons 35
using 107
PIN 32
power management 59
power socket 106
power windows 9
powering on and off 38
Preconditioning 93
preferences, setting 93
public charging stations 120
R
radar 62
radio 103
Radio Frequency information 167
rain sensor 50
range
displayed on instrument panel 40
driving tips to maximize 59
regenerative braking 52
range assurance 59
Range mode 59
Range Mode 90
Rated range 93
re-routing 110
rear seats, folding and raising 18
rear view camera 61
rear window switches, disabling 9
Recent (Media Player) 105
Recents 109
regenerative braking 52
region format 93
release notes 117
Reverse gear 39
RFID transponders 148
roadside assistance 160
roof racks 151
rotating tires 130
route overview 110
S
safety information
airbags 31
safety information (continued)
child seats 27
seat belts 21
seat belts
cleaning 140
in a collision 20
overview of 19
pre-tensioners 20
wearing when pregnant 19
seat covers 18
seat heaters 97
seating capacity 150
seats
adjusting 17
heaters 97
security settings 115
sensors 62
service data recording 165
service intervals 128
Settings 93
Settings, erasing 96
shifting gears 39
Show Commute Advice 110
side collision avoidance 79
side collision warning 79
slip start 53
Smart Preconditioning 93
software reset 96
software updates 117
specifications
cargo volume 153
dimensions 152
exterior 152
interior 152
motor 154
subsystems 154
tires 157
weights 153
wheels 157
stability control 53
starting 38
Statutory Plate 150
steering specifications 154
steering wheel
adjusting position 34
adjusting sensitivity 34
buttons 34
heated 34
scroll bars 34
steering, automatic 70
summer tires 132
Summon 75
sunroof 15
suspension 102
suspension specifications 155
Index
172 Model S Owner's Manual
T
telematics 165
temperature
Battery (high voltage), limits 121
cabin, controls for 97
heated steering wheel 36
outside 40
tie-down straps 162
tilt detection 115
Tire and Loading Information label 150
tire noise 132
Tire Pressure Monitoring System
FCC certification 168
overview of 133
tire pressures, checking 129
tire repair kit
inflating with air only 137
inflating with sealant 136
replacing the sealant canister 138
tires
all-season 132
balancing 130
chains 132
inspecting and maintaining 130
pressures, how to check 129
replacing 131
replacing a tire sensor 133
rotation 130
specification 157
summer 132
tire markings 158
tire sealant 135
winter 132
toll system transponders, attaching 148
tolls, avoiding 110
torque specifications 154
touch up body 141
touchscreen
clean mode 140
cleaning 140
Controls 90
overview 86
Settings 93
software updates 117
Tow mode 161
towing 161
towing a trailer 151
towing eye, locating 162
towing instructions 161
TPMS
FCC certification 168
overview of 133
traction control 53
trademarks 163, 164
Traffic-Aware Cruise Control 64
Traffic-Based Routing 110
trailer hitches 151
transmission specifications 154
transponders, attaching 148
transporting 161
trip chart 59
trip meter 58
trip overview 110
trip planner 110
trunk, front 12
trunk, rear
child protection lock 7
disabling interior handle 7
TuneIn radio 104
turn signals 49
Typical range 93
U
ultrasonic sensors 62
Units & Format 93
Unlock on Park 4
unlocking
trunk, front 12
trunk, rear 10
unlocking and locking doors 4
unlocking when key doesn't work 7
USB devices
connecting 106
playing audio files from 105
USB ports 106
V
Valet Mode 32
Vehicle Hold 56
Vehicle Identification Number (VIN) 149
vehicle loading 150
vent, sunroof 15
ventilation 100
VIN (Vehicle Identification Number) 149
voice commands 34
volume control 86
volume control (media) 103
W
walk-away locking 7
Wall Connector 120
warning flashers 49
washer fluid, topping up 146
washer jets, cleaning 142
washers, using 50
weight specifications 153
wheel chocks 162
wheels
alignment 130
replacing 131
specifications 157
Index
Index 173
Wi-Fi, connecting to 116
windshield washer fluid, topping up 146
winter tires 132
wiper blades, replacing 142
wipers and washers 50
wipers, de-icing 50
Work location 111
Index
174 Model S Owner's Manual
